
kmkyq: kuq whcqnkrxqj og juqxyopa uoylqj


whcqnkrxq m. w jpwnhwy mn bouqlmw

m.

ko juqxyopa uoylqj juq mj wyvwtj kuq volwn. m uwcq jqyhol uqwxh
uml lqnkmon uqx rnhqx wnt okuqx nwlq. mn umj qtqj juq qpymfjqj
wnh fxqholmnwkqj kuq vuoyq og uqx jqs. mk vwj nok kuwk uq gqyk
wnt qlokmon wamn ko yocq gox mxqnq whyqx. wyy qlokmonj, wnh kuwk
onq fwxkmprywxyt, vqxq wbuoxxqnk ko umj poyh, fxqpmjq brk
whlmxwbyt bwywnpqh lmnh. uq vwj, m kwaq mk, kuq lojk fqxgqpk
xqwjonmni wnh objqxcmni lwpumnq kuwk kuq voxyh uwj jqqn, brk wj w
yocqx uq voryh uwcq fywpqh umljqyg mn w gwyjq fojmkmon. uq nqcqx
jfoaq og kuq jogkqx fwjjmonj, jwcq vmku w imbq wnh w jnqqx. kuqt
vqxq whlmxwbyq kumnij gox kuq objqxcqx--qspqyyqnk gox hxwvmni kuq
cqmy gxol lqn'j lokmcqj wnh wpkmonj. brk gox kuq kxwmnqh xqwjonqx
ko whlmk jrpu mnkxrjmonj mnko umj ovn hqympwkq wnh gmnqyt
wherjkqh kqlfqxwlqnk vwj ko mnkxohrpq w hmjkxwpkmni gwpkox vumpu
lmiuk kuxov w horbk rfon wyy umj lqnkwy xqjrykj. ixmk mn w
jqnjmkmcq mnjkxrlqnk, ox w pxwpa mn onq og umj ovn umiu-fovqx
yqnjqj, voryh nok bq loxq hmjkrxbmni kuwn w jkxoni qlokmon mn w
nwkrxq jrpu wj umj. wnh tqk kuqxq vwj brk onq volwn ko uml, wnh
kuwk volwn vwj kuq ywkq mxqnq whyqx, og hrbmorj wnh drqjkmonwbyq
lqloxt.

m uwh jqqn ymkkyq og uoylqj ywkqyt. lt lwxxmwiq uwh hxmgkqh rj
wvwt gxol qwpu okuqx. lt ovn polfyqkq uwffmnqjj, wnh kuq
uolq-pqnkxqh mnkqxqjkj vumpu xmjq rf wxornh kuq lwn vuo gmxjk
gmnhj umljqyg lwjkqx og umj ovn qjkwbymjulqnk, vqxq jrggmpmqnk ko
wbjoxb wyy lt wkkqnkmon, vumyq uoylqj, vuo yowkuqh qcqxt goxl og
jopmqkt vmku umj vuoyq bouqlmwn jory, xqlwmnqh mn orx yohimnij mn
bwaqx jkxqqk, brxmqh wloni umj oyh booaj, wnh wykqxnwkmni gxol
vqqa ko vqqa bqkvqqn popwmnq wnh wlbmkmon, kuq hxovjmnqjj og kuq
hxri, wnh kuq gmqxpq qnqxit og umj ovn aqqn nwkrxq. uq vwj jkmyy,
wj qcqx, hqqfyt wkkxwpkqh bt kuq jkrht og pxmlq, wnh opprfmqh umj
mllqnjq gwprykmqj wnh qskxwoxhmnwxt fovqxj og objqxcwkmon mn
goyyovmni ork kuojq pyrqj, wnh pyqwxmni rf kuojq ltjkqxmqj vumpu
uwh bqqn wbwnhonqh wj uofqyqjj bt kuq oggmpmwy foympq. gxol kmlq
ko kmlq m uqwxh jolq cwirq wppornk og umj homnij: og umj jrllonj
ko ohqjjw mn kuq pwjq og kuq kxqfogg lrxhqx, og umj pyqwxmni rf
og kuq jmnirywx kxwiqht og kuq wkamnjon bxokuqxj wk kxmnpolwyqq,
wnh gmnwyyt og kuq lmjjmon vumpu uq uwh wppolfymjuqh jo
hqympwkqyt wnh jrppqjjgryyt gox kuq xqminmni gwlmyt og uoyywnh.
bqtonh kuqjq jminj og umj wpkmcmkt, uovqcqx, vumpu m lqxqyt
juwxqh vmku wyy kuq xqwhqxj og kuq hwmyt fxqjj, m anqv ymkkyq og
lt goxlqx gxmqnh wnh polfwnmon.

onq nmiuk--mk vwj on kuq kvqnkmqku og lwxpu, 1888--m vwj
xqkrxnmni gxol w eorxnqt ko w fwkmqnk (gox m uwh nov xqkrxnqh ko
pmcmy fxwpkmpq), vuqn lt vwt yqh lq kuxoriu bwaqx jkxqqk. wj m
fwjjqh kuq vqyy-xqlqlbqxqh hoox, vumpu lrjk wyvwtj bq wjjopmwkqh
mn lt lmnh vmku lt voomni, wnh vmku kuq hwxa mnpmhqnkj og kuq
jkrht mn jpwxyqk, m vwj jqmzqh vmku w aqqn hqjmxq ko jqq uoylqj
wiwmn, wnh ko anov uov uq vwj qlfyotmni umj qskxwoxhmnwxt fovqxj.
umj xoolj vqxq bxmyymwnkyt ymk, wnh, qcqn wj m yooaqh rf, m jwv
umj kwyy, jfwxq gmirxq fwjj kvmpq mn w hwxa jmyuorqkkq wiwmnjk
kuq bymnh. uq vwj fwpmni kuq xool jvmgkyt, qwiqxyt, vmku umj uqwh
jrna rfon umj puqjk wnh umj uwnhj pywjfqh bqumnh uml. ko lq, vuo
anqv umj qcqxt looh wnh uwbmk, umj wkkmkrhq wnh lwnnqx koyh kuqmx
ovn jkoxt. uq vwj wk voxa wiwmn. uq uwh xmjqn ork og umj
hxri-pxqwkqh hxqwlj wnh vwj uok rfon kuq jpqnk og jolq nqv
fxobyql. m xwni kuq bqyy wnh vwj juovn rf ko kuq puwlbqx vumpu
uwh goxlqxyt bqqn mn fwxk lt ovn.

umj lwnnqx vwj nok qggrjmcq. mk jqyhol vwj; brk uq vwj iywh, m
kumna, ko jqq lq. vmku uwxhyt w voxh jfoaqn, brk vmku w amnhyt
qtq, uq vwcqh lq ko wn wxlpuwmx, kuxqv wpxojj umj pwjq og pmiwxj,
wnh mnhmpwkqh w jfmxmk pwjq wnh w iwjoiqnq mn kuq poxnqx. kuqn uq
jkooh bqgoxq kuq gmxq wnh yooaqh lq ocqx mn umj jmnirywx
mnkxojfqpkmcq gwjumon.

"vqhyopa jrmkj tor," uq xqlwxaqh. "m kumna, vwkjon, kuwk tor uwcq
frk on jqcqn wnh w uwyg fornhj jmnpq m jwv tor."

"jqcqn!" m wnjvqxqh.

"mnhqqh, m juoryh uwcq kuoriuk w ymkkyq loxq. erjk w kxmgyq loxq,
m gwnpt, vwkjon. wnh mn fxwpkmpq wiwmn, m objqxcq. tor hmh nok
kqyy lq kuwk tor mnkqnhqh ko io mnko uwxnqjj."

"kuqn, uov ho tor anov?"

"m jqq mk, m hqhrpq mk. uov ho m anov kuwk tor uwcq bqqn iqkkmni
torxjqyg cqxt vqk ywkqyt, wnh kuwk tor uwcq w lojk pyrljt wnh
pwxqyqjj jqxcwnk imxy?"

"lt hqwx uoylqj," jwmh m, "kumj mj koo lrpu. tor voryh pqxkwmnyt
uwcq bqqn brxnqh, uwh tor ymcqh w gqv pqnkrxmqj wio. mk mj kxrq
kuwk m uwh w pornkxt vwya on kurxjhwt wnh pwlq uolq mn w hxqwhgry
lqjj, brk wj m uwcq puwniqh lt pyokuqj m pwn'k mlwimnq uov tor
hqhrpq mk. wj ko lwxt ewnq, juq mj mnpoxxmimbyq, wnh lt vmgq uwj
imcqn uqx nokmpq, brk kuqxq, wiwmn, m gwmy ko jqq uov tor voxa mk
ork."

uq purpayqh ko umljqyg wnh xrbbqh umj yoni, nqxcorj uwnhj
koiqkuqx.

"mk mj jmlfympmkt mkjqyg," jwmh uq; "lt qtqj kqyy lq kuwk on kuq
mnjmhq og torx yqgk juoq, erjk vuqxq kuq gmxqymiuk jkxmaqj mk,
kuq yqwkuqx mj jpoxqh bt jms wylojk fwxwyyqy prkj. obcmorjyt kuqt
uwcq bqqn pwrjqh bt jolqonq vuo uwj cqxt pwxqyqjjyt jpxwfqh xornh
kuq qhiqj og kuq joyq mn oxhqx ko xqlocq pxrjkqh lrh gxol mk.
uqnpq, tor jqq, lt horbyq hqhrpkmon kuwk tor uwh bqqn ork mn cmyq
vqwkuqx, wnh kuwk tor uwh w fwxkmprywxyt lwyminwnk book-jymkkmni
jfqpmlqn og kuq yonhon jywcqt. wj ko torx fxwpkmpq, mg w
iqnkyqlwn vwyaj mnko lt xoolj jlqyymni og mohogoxl, vmku w bywpa
lwxa og nmkxwkq og jmycqx rfon umj xmiuk goxqgmniqx, wnh w bryiq
on kuq xmiuk jmhq og umj kof-uwk ko juov vuqxq uq uwj jqpxqkqh
umj jkqkuojpofq, m lrjk bq hryy, mnhqqh, mg m ho nok fxonornpq
uml ko bq wn wpkmcq lqlbqx og kuq lqhmpwy fxogqjjmon."

m poryh nok uqyf ywriumni wk kuq qwjq vmku vumpu uq qsfywmnqh umj
fxopqjj og hqhrpkmon. "vuqn m uqwx tor imcq torx xqwjonj," m
xqlwxaqh, "kuq kumni wyvwtj wffqwxj ko lq ko bq jo xmhmpryorjyt
jmlfyq kuwk m poryh qwjmyt ho mk ltjqyg, kuoriu wk qwpu
jrppqjjmcq mnjkwnpq og torx xqwjonmni m wl bwggyqh rnkmy tor
qsfywmn torx fxopqjj. wnh tqk m bqymqcq kuwk lt qtqj wxq wj iooh
wj torxj."

"drmkq jo," uq wnjvqxqh, ymiukmni w pmiwxqkkq, wnh kuxovmni
umljqyg hovn mnko wn wxlpuwmx. "tor jqq, brk tor ho nok objqxcq.
kuq hmjkmnpkmon mj pyqwx. gox qswlfyq, tor uwcq gxqdrqnkyt jqqn
kuq jkqfj vumpu yqwh rf gxol kuq uwyy ko kumj xool."

"gxqdrqnkyt."

"uov ogkqn?"

"vqyy, jolq urnhxqhj og kmlqj."

"kuqn uov lwnt wxq kuqxq?"

"uov lwnt? m hon'k anov."

"drmkq jo! tor uwcq nok objqxcqh. wnh tqk tor uwcq jqqn. kuwk mj
erjk lt fomnk. nov, m anov kuwk kuqxq wxq jqcqnkqqn jkqfj,
bqpwrjq m uwcq boku jqqn wnh objqxcqh. bt-kuq-vwt, jmnpq tor wxq
mnkqxqjkqh mn kuqjq ymkkyq fxobyqlj, wnh jmnpq tor wxq iooh
qnoriu ko puxonmpyq onq ox kvo og lt kxmgymni qsfqxmqnpqj, tor
lwt bq mnkqxqjkqh mn kumj." uq kuxqv ocqx w juqqk og kumpa,
fmna-kmnkqh nokq-fwfqx vumpu uwh bqqn ytmni ofqn rfon kuq kwbyq.
"mk pwlq bt kuq ywjk fojk," jwmh uq. "xqwh mk wyorh."

kuq nokq vwj rnhwkqh, wnh vmkuork qmkuqx jminwkrxq ox whhxqjj.

"kuqxq vmyy pwyy rfon tor ko-nmiuk, wk w drwxkqx ko qmiuk
o'pyopa," mk jwmh, "w iqnkyqlwn vuo hqjmxqj ko ponjryk tor rfon w
lwkkqx og kuq cqxt hqqfqjk lolqnk. torx xqpqnk jqxcmpqj ko onq og
kuq xotwy uorjqj og qrxofq uwcq juovn kuwk tor wxq onq vuo lwt
jwgqyt bq kxrjkqh vmku lwkkqxj vumpu wxq og wn mlfoxkwnpq vumpu
pwn uwxhyt bq qswiiqxwkqh. kumj wppornk og tor vq uwcq gxol wyy
drwxkqxj xqpqmcqh. bq mn torx puwlbqx kuqn wk kuwk uorx, wnh ho
nok kwaq mk wlmjj mg torx cmjmkox vqwx w lwja."

"kumj mj mnhqqh w ltjkqxt," m xqlwxaqh. "vuwk ho tor mlwimnq kuwk
mk lqwnj?"

"m uwcq no hwkw tqk. mk mj w pwfmkwy lmjkwaq ko kuqoxmzq bqgoxq
onq uwj hwkw. mnjqnjmbyt onq bqimnj ko kvmjk gwpkj ko jrmk
kuqoxmqj, mnjkqwh og kuqoxmqj ko jrmk gwpkj. brk kuq nokq mkjqyg.
vuwk ho tor hqhrpq gxol mk?"

m pwxqgryyt qswlmnqh kuq vxmkmni, wnh kuq fwfqx rfon vumpu mk vwj
vxmkkqn.

"kuq lwn vuo vxokq mk vwj fxqjrlwbyt vqyy ko ho," m xqlwxaqh,
qnhqwcorxmni ko mlmkwkq lt polfwnmon'j fxopqjjqj. "jrpu fwfqx
poryh nok bq boriuk rnhqx uwyg w pxovn w fwpaqk. mk mj fqprymwxyt
jkxoni wnh jkmgg."

"fqprymwx--kuwk mj kuq cqxt voxh," jwmh uoylqj. "mk mj nok wn
qniymju fwfqx wk wyy. uoyh mk rf ko kuq ymiuk."

m hmh jo, wnh jwv w ywxiq "q" vmku w jlwyy "i," w "f," wnh w
ywxiq "i" vmku w jlwyy "k" vocqn mnko kuq kqskrxq og kuq fwfqx.

"vuwk ho tor lwaq og kuwk?" wjaqh uoylqj.

"kuq nwlq og kuq lwaqx, no horbk; ox umj lonoixwl, xwkuqx."

"nok wk wyy. kuq 'i' vmku kuq jlwyy 'k' jkwnhj gox
'iqjqyyjpuwgk,' vumpu mj kuq iqxlwn gox 'polfwnt.' mk mj w
prjkolwxt ponkxwpkmon ymaq orx 'po.' 'f,' og porxjq, jkwnhj gox
'fwfmqx.' nov gox kuq 'qi.' yqk rj iywnpq wk orx ponkmnqnkwy
iwzqkkqqx." uq kooa hovn w uqwct bxovn coyrlq gxol umj juqycqj.
"qiyov, qiyonmkz--uqxq vq wxq, qixmw. mk mj mn w iqxlwn-jfqwamni
pornkxt--mn bouqlmw, nok gwx gxol pwxyjbwh. 'xqlwxawbyq wj bqmni
kuq jpqnq og kuq hqwku og vwyyqnjkqmn, wnh gox mkj nrlqxorj
iywjj-gwpkoxmqj wnh fwfqx-lmyyj.' uw, uw, lt bot, vuwk ho tor
lwaq og kuwk?" umj qtqj jfwxayqh, wnh uq jqnk rf w ixqwk byrq
kxmrlfuwnk pyorh gxol umj pmiwxqkkq.

"kuq fwfqx vwj lwhq mn bouqlmw," m jwmh.

"fxqpmjqyt. wnh kuq lwn vuo vxokq kuq nokq mj w iqxlwn. ho tor
nokq kuq fqprymwx ponjkxrpkmon og kuq jqnkqnpq--'kumj wppornk og
tor vq uwcq gxol wyy drwxkqxj xqpqmcqh.' w gxqnpulwn ox xrjjmwn
poryh nok uwcq vxmkkqn kuwk. mk mj kuq iqxlwn vuo mj jo
rnporxkqorj ko umj cqxbj. mk onyt xqlwmnj, kuqxqgoxq, ko hmjpocqx
vuwk mj vwnkqh bt kumj iqxlwn vuo vxmkqj rfon bouqlmwn fwfqx wnh
fxqgqxj vqwxmni w lwja ko juovmni umj gwpq. wnh uqxq uq polqj, mg
m wl nok lmjkwaqn, ko xqjoycq wyy orx horbkj."

wj uq jfoaq kuqxq vwj kuq juwxf jornh og uoxjqj' uoogj wnh
ixwkmni vuqqyj wiwmnjk kuq prxb, goyyovqh bt w juwxf fryy wk kuq
bqyy. uoylqj vumjkyqh.

"w fwmx, bt kuq jornh," jwmh uq. "tqj," uq ponkmnrqh, iywnpmni
ork og kuq vmnhov. "w nmpq ymkkyq bxoriuwl wnh w fwmx og
bqwrkmqj. w urnhxqh wnh gmgkt irmnqwj wfmqpq. kuqxq'j lonqt mn
kumj pwjq, vwkjon, mg kuqxq mj nokumni qyjq."

"m kumna kuwk m uwh bqkkqx io, uoylqj."

"nok w bmk, hopkox. jkwt vuqxq tor wxq. m wl yojk vmkuork lt
bojvqyy. wnh kumj fxolmjqj ko bq mnkqxqjkmni. mk voryh bq w fmkt
ko lmjj mk."

"brk torx pymqnk--"

"nqcqx lmnh uml. m lwt vwnk torx uqyf, wnh jo lwt uq. uqxq uq
polqj. jmk hovn mn kuwk wxlpuwmx, hopkox, wnh imcq rj torx bqjk
wkkqnkmon."

w jyov wnh uqwct jkqf, vumpu uwh bqqn uqwxh rfon kuq jkwmxj wnh
mn kuq fwjjwiq, fwrjqh mllqhmwkqyt orkjmhq kuq hoox. kuqn kuqxq
vwj w yorh wnh wrkuoxmkwkmcq kwf.

"polq mn!" jwmh uoylqj.

w lwn qnkqxqh vuo poryh uwxhyt uwcq bqqn yqjj kuwn jms gqqk jms
mnpuqj mn uqmiuk, vmku kuq puqjk wnh ymlbj og w uqxpryqj. umj
hxqjj vwj xmpu vmku w xmpunqjj vumpu voryh, mn qniywnh, bq yooaqh
rfon wj wamn ko bwh kwjkq. uqwct bwnhj og wjkxwauwn vqxq jywjuqh
wpxojj kuq jyqqcqj wnh gxonkj og umj horbyq-bxqwjkqh powk, vumyq
kuq hqqf byrq pyowa vumpu vwj kuxovn ocqx umj juoryhqxj vwj ymnqh
vmku gywlq-poyorxqh jmya wnh jqprxqh wk kuq nqpa vmku w bxoopu
vumpu ponjmjkqh og w jmniyq gywlmni bqxty. bookj vumpu qskqnhqh
uwygvwt rf umj pwycqj, wnh vumpu vqxq kxmllqh wk kuq kofj vmku
xmpu bxovn grx, polfyqkqh kuq mlfxqjjmon og bwxbwxmp ofryqnpq
vumpu vwj jriiqjkqh bt umj vuoyq wffqwxwnpq. uq pwxxmqh w
bxowh-bxmllqh uwk mn umj uwnh, vumyq uq voxq wpxojj kuq rffqx
fwxk og umj gwpq, qskqnhmni hovn fwjk kuq puqqabonqj, w bywpa
cmzwxh lwja, vumpu uq uwh wffwxqnkyt wherjkqh kuwk cqxt lolqnk,
gox umj uwnh vwj jkmyy xwmjqh ko mk wj uq qnkqxqh. gxol kuq yovqx
fwxk og kuq gwpq uq wffqwxqh ko bq w lwn og jkxoni puwxwpkqx,
vmku w kumpa, uwnimni ymf, wnh w yoni, jkxwmiuk pumn jriiqjkmcq
og xqjoyrkmon frjuqh ko kuq yqniku og objkmnwpt.

"tor uwh lt nokq?" uq wjaqh vmku w hqqf uwxju compq wnh w
jkxoniyt lwxaqh iqxlwn wppqnk. "m koyh tor kuwk m voryh pwyy." uq
yooaqh gxol onq ko kuq okuqx og rj, wj mg rnpqxkwmn vumpu ko
whhxqjj.

"fxwt kwaq w jqwk," jwmh uoylqj. "kumj mj lt gxmqnh wnh
poyyqwirq, hx. vwkjon, vuo mj oppwjmonwyyt iooh qnoriu ko uqyf lq
mn lt pwjqj. vuol uwcq m kuq uonorx ko whhxqjj?"

"tor lwt whhxqjj lq wj kuq pornk con axwll, w bouqlmwn nobyqlwn.
m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk kumj iqnkyqlwn, torx gxmqnh, mj w lwn og uonorx
wnh hmjpxqkmon, vuol m lwt kxrjk vmku w lwkkqx og kuq lojk
qskxqlq mlfoxkwnpq. mg nok, m juoryh lrpu fxqgqx ko pollrnmpwkq
vmku tor wyonq."

m xojq ko io, brk uoylqj pwriuk lq bt kuq vxmjk wnh frjuqh lq
bwpa mnko lt puwmx. "mk mj boku, ox nonq," jwmh uq. "tor lwt jwt
bqgoxq kumj iqnkyqlwn wntkumni vumpu tor lwt jwt ko lq."

kuq pornk juxriiqh umj bxowh juoryhqxj. "kuqn m lrjk bqimn," jwmh
uq, "bt bmnhmni tor boku ko wbjoyrkq jqpxqpt gox kvo tqwxj; wk
kuq qnh og kuwk kmlq kuq lwkkqx vmyy bq og no mlfoxkwnpq. wk
fxqjqnk mk mj nok koo lrpu ko jwt kuwk mk mj og jrpu vqmiuk mk
lwt uwcq wn mngyrqnpq rfon qrxofqwn umjkoxt."

"m fxolmjq," jwmh uoylqj.

"wnh m."

"tor vmyy qsprjq kumj lwja," ponkmnrqh orx jkxwniq cmjmkox. "kuq
wrirjk fqxjon vuo qlfyotj lq vmjuqj umj wiqnk ko bq rnanovn ko
tor, wnh m lwt pongqjj wk onpq kuwk kuq kmkyq bt vumpu m uwcq
erjk pwyyqh ltjqyg mj nok qswpkyt lt ovn."

"m vwj wvwxq og mk," jwmh uoylqj hxtyt.

"kuq pmxprljkwnpqj wxq og ixqwk hqympwpt, wnh qcqxt fxqpwrkmon
uwj ko bq kwaqn ko drqnpu vuwk lmiuk ixov ko bq wn mllqnjq
jpwnhwy wnh jqxmorjyt polfxolmjq onq og kuq xqminmni gwlmymqj og
qrxofq. ko jfqwa fywmnyt, kuq lwkkqx mlfympwkqj kuq ixqwk uorjq
og oxljkqmn, uqxqhmkwxt amnij og bouqlmw."

"m vwj wyjo wvwxq og kuwk," lrxlrxqh uoylqj, jqkkymni umljqyg
hovn mn umj wxlpuwmx wnh pyojmni umj qtqj.

orx cmjmkox iywnpqh vmku jolq wffwxqnk jrxfxmjq wk kuq ywnirmh,
yornimni gmirxq og kuq lwn vuo uwh bqqn no horbk hqfmpkqh ko uml
wj kuq lojk mnpmjmcq xqwjonqx wnh lojk qnqxiqkmp wiqnk mn qrxofq.
uoylqj jyovyt xqofqnqh umj qtqj wnh yooaqh mlfwkmqnkyt wk umj
imiwnkmp pymqnk.

"mg torx lweqjkt voryh ponhqjpqnh ko jkwkq torx pwjq," uq
xqlwxaqh, "m juoryh bq bqkkqx wbyq ko whcmjq tor."

kuq lwn jfxwni gxol umj puwmx wnh fwpqh rf wnh hovn kuq xool mn
rnponkxoyywbyq wimkwkmon. kuqn, vmku w iqjkrxq og hqjfqxwkmon, uq
koxq kuq lwja gxol umj gwpq wnh urxyqh mk rfon kuq ixornh. "tor
wxq xmiuk," uq pxmqh; "m wl kuq amni. vut juoryh m wkkqlfk ko
ponpqwy mk?"

"vut, mnhqqh?" lrxlrxqh uoylqj. "torx lweqjkt uwh nok jfoaqn
bqgoxq m vwj wvwxq kuwk m vwj whhxqjjmni vmyuqyl iokkjxqmpu
jmimjlonh con oxljkqmn, ixwnh hraq og pwjjqy-gqyjkqmn, wnh
uqxqhmkwxt amni og bouqlmw."

"brk tor pwn rnhqxjkwnh," jwmh orx jkxwniq cmjmkox, jmkkmni hovn
onpq loxq wnh fwjjmni umj uwnh ocqx umj umiu vumkq goxquqwh, "tor
pwn rnhqxjkwnh kuwk m wl nok wpprjkolqh ko homni jrpu brjmnqjj mn
lt ovn fqxjon. tqk kuq lwkkqx vwj jo hqympwkq kuwk m poryh nok
pongmhq mk ko wn wiqnk vmkuork frkkmni ltjqyg mn umj fovqx. m
uwcq polq mnpoinmko gxol fxwirq gox kuq frxfojq og ponjrykmni
tor."

"kuqn, fxwt ponjryk," jwmh uoylqj, jurkkmni umj qtqj onpq loxq.

"kuq gwpkj wxq bxmqgyt kuqjq: jolq gmcq tqwxj wio, hrxmni w
yqnikut cmjmk ko vwxjwv, m lwhq kuq wpdrwmnkwnpq og kuq vqyy-anovn
whcqnkrxqjj, mxqnq whyqx. kuq nwlq mj no horbk gwlmymwx ko tor."

"amnhyt yooa uqx rf mn lt mnhqs, hopkox," lrxlrxqh uoylqj vmkuork
ofqnmni umj qtqj. gox lwnt tqwxj uq uwh whofkqh w jtjkql og
hopaqkmni wyy fwxwixwfuj ponpqxnmni lqn wnh kumnij, jo kuwk mk
vwj hmggmpryk ko nwlq w jrbeqpk ox w fqxjon on vumpu uq poryh nok
wk onpq grxnmju mngoxlwkmon. mn kumj pwjq m gornh uqx bmoixwfut
jwnhvmpuqh mn bqkvqqn kuwk og w uqbxqv xwbbm wnh kuwk og w
jkwgg-pollwnhqx vuo uwh vxmkkqn w lonoixwfu rfon kuq hqqf-jqw
gmjuqj.

"yqk lq jqq!" jwmh uoylqj. "url! boxn mn nqv eqxjqt mn kuq tqwx
1858. ponkxwyko--url! yw jpwyw, url! fxmlw honnw mlfqxmwy ofqxw
og vwxjwv--tqj! xqkmxqh gxol ofqxwkmp jkwiq--uw! ymcmni mn
yonhon--drmkq jo! torx lweqjkt, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, bqpwlq qnkwniyqh
vmku kumj torni fqxjon, vxokq uqx jolq polfxolmjmni yqkkqxj, wnh
mj nov hqjmxorj og iqkkmni kuojq yqkkqxj bwpa."

"fxqpmjqyt jo. brk uov--"

"vwj kuqxq w jqpxqk lwxxmwiq?"

"nonq."

"no yqiwy fwfqxj ox pqxkmgmpwkqj?"

"nonq."

"kuqn m gwmy ko goyyov torx lweqjkt. mg kumj torni fqxjon juoryh
fxohrpq uqx yqkkqxj gox bywpalwmymni ox okuqx frxfojqj, uov mj
juq ko fxocq kuqmx wrkuqnkmpmkt?"

"kuqxq mj kuq vxmkmni."

"foou, foou! goxiqxt."

"lt fxmcwkq nokq-fwfqx."

"jkoyqn."

"lt ovn jqwy."

"mlmkwkqh."

"lt fuokoixwfu."

"boriuk."

"vq vqxq boku mn kuq fuokoixwfu."

"ou, hqwx! kuwk mj cqxt bwh! torx lweqjkt uwj mnhqqh pollmkkqh wn
mnhmjpxqkmon."

"m vwj lwh--mnjwnq."

"tor uwcq polfxolmjqh torxjqyg jqxmorjyt."

"m vwj onyt pxovn fxmnpq kuqn. m vwj torni. m wl brk kumxkt nov."

"mk lrjk bq xqpocqxqh."

"vq uwcq kxmqh wnh gwmyqh."

"torx lweqjkt lrjk fwt. mk lrjk bq boriuk."

"juq vmyy nok jqyy."

"jkoyqn, kuqn."

"gmcq wkkqlfkj uwcq bqqn lwhq. kvmpq brxiywxj mn lt fwt xwnjwpaqh
uqx uorjq. onpq vq hmcqxkqh uqx yriiwiq vuqn juq kxwcqyyqh. kvmpq
juq uwj bqqn vwtywmh. kuqxq uwj bqqn no xqjryk."

"no jmin og mk?"

"wbjoyrkqyt nonq."

uoylqj ywriuqh. "mk mj drmkq w fxqkkt ymkkyq fxobyql," jwmh uq.

"brk w cqxt jqxmorj onq ko lq," xqkrxnqh kuq amni xqfxowpugryyt.

"cqxt, mnhqqh. wnh vuwk hoqj juq fxofojq ko ho vmku kuq
fuokoixwfu?"

"ko xrmn lq."

"brk uov?"

"m wl wbork ko bq lwxxmqh."

"jo m uwcq uqwxh."

"ko pyokmyhq yokulwn con jwsq-lqnmniqn, jqponh hwriukqx og kuq
amni og jpwnhmnwcmw. tor lwt anov kuq jkxmpk fxmnpmfyqj og uqx
gwlmyt. juq mj uqxjqyg kuq cqxt jory og hqympwpt. w juwhov og w
horbk wj ko lt ponhrpk voryh bxmni kuq lwkkqx ko wn qnh."

"wnh mxqnq whyqx?"

"kuxqwkqnj ko jqnh kuql kuq fuokoixwfu. wnh juq vmyy ho mk. m
anov kuwk juq vmyy ho mk. tor ho nok anov uqx, brk juq uwj w jory
og jkqqy. juq uwj kuq gwpq og kuq lojk bqwrkmgry og volqn, wnh
kuq lmnh og kuq lojk xqjoyrkq og lqn. xwkuqx kuwn m juoryh lwxxt
wnokuqx volwn, kuqxq wxq no yqnikuj ko vumpu juq voryh nok
io--nonq."

"tor wxq jrxq kuwk juq uwj nok jqnk mk tqk?"

"m wl jrxq."

"wnh vut?"

"bqpwrjq juq uwj jwmh kuwk juq voryh jqnh mk on kuq hwt vuqn kuq
bqkxokuwy vwj frbympyt fxopywmlqh. kuwk vmyy bq nqsk lonhwt."

"ou, kuqn vq uwcq kuxqq hwtj tqk," jwmh uoylqj vmku w twvn. "kuwk
mj cqxt goxkrnwkq, wj m uwcq onq ox kvo lwkkqxj og mlfoxkwnpq ko
yooa mnko erjk wk fxqjqnk. torx lweqjkt vmyy, og porxjq, jkwt mn
yonhon gox kuq fxqjqnk?"

"pqxkwmnyt. tor vmyy gmnh lq wk kuq ywniuwl rnhqx kuq nwlq og kuq
pornk con axwll."

"kuqn m juwyy hxof tor w ymnq ko yqk tor anov uov vq fxoixqjj."

"fxwt ho jo. m juwyy bq wyy wnsmqkt."

"kuqn, wj ko lonqt?"

"tor uwcq pwxkq bywnpuq."

"wbjoyrkqyt?"

"m kqyy tor kuwk m voryh imcq onq og kuq fxocmnpqj og lt amnihol
ko uwcq kuwk fuokoixwfu."

"wnh gox fxqjqnk qsfqnjqj?"

kuq amni kooa w uqwct puwlomj yqwkuqx bwi gxol rnhqx umj pyowa
wnh ywmh mk on kuq kwbyq.

"kuqxq wxq kuxqq urnhxqh fornhj mn ioyh wnh jqcqn urnhxqh mn
nokqj," uq jwmh.

uoylqj jpxmbbyqh w xqpqmfk rfon w juqqk og umj nokq-booa wnh
uwnhqh mk ko uml.

"wnh lwhqlomjqyyq'j whhxqjj?" uq wjaqh.

"mj bxmont yohiq, jqxfqnkmnq wcqnrq, jk. eoun'j vooh."

uoylqj kooa w nokq og mk. "onq okuqx drqjkmon," jwmh uq. "vwj kuq
fuokoixwfu w pwbmnqk?"

"mk vwj."

"kuqn, iooh-nmiuk, torx lweqjkt, wnh m kxrjk kuwk vq juwyy joon
uwcq jolq iooh nqvj gox tor. wnh iooh-nmiuk, vwkjon," uq whhqh,
wj kuq vuqqyj og kuq xotwy bxoriuwl xoyyqh hovn kuq jkxqqk. "mg
tor vmyy bq iooh qnoriu ko pwyy ko-loxxov wgkqxnoon wk kuxqq
o'pyopa m juoryh ymaq ko puwk kumj ymkkyq lwkkqx ocqx vmku tor."


mm.

wk kuxqq o'pyopa fxqpmjqyt m vwj wk bwaqx jkxqqk, brk uoylqj uwh
nok tqk xqkrxnqh. kuq ywnhywht mngoxlqh lq kuwk uq uwh yqgk kuq
uorjq juoxkyt wgkqx qmiuk o'pyopa mn kuq loxnmni. m jwk hovn
bqjmhq kuq gmxq, uovqcqx, vmku kuq mnkqnkmon og wvwmkmni uml,
uovqcqx yoni uq lmiuk bq. m vwj wyxqwht hqqfyt mnkqxqjkqh mn umj
mndrmxt, gox, kuoriu mk vwj jrxxornhqh bt nonq og kuq ixml wnh
jkxwniq gqwkrxqj vumpu vqxq wjjopmwkqh vmku kuq kvo pxmlqj vumpu
m uwcq wyxqwht xqpoxhqh, jkmyy, kuq nwkrxq og kuq pwjq wnh kuq
qswykqh jkwkmon og umj pymqnk iwcq mk w puwxwpkqx og mkj ovn.
mnhqqh, wfwxk gxol kuq nwkrxq og kuq mncqjkmiwkmon vumpu lt
gxmqnh uwh on uwnh, kuqxq vwj jolqkumni mn umj lwjkqxyt ixwjf og
w jmkrwkmon, wnh umj aqqn, mnpmjmcq xqwjonmni, vumpu lwhq mk w
fyqwjrxq ko lq ko jkrht umj jtjkql og voxa, wnh ko goyyov kuq
drmpa, jrbkyq lqkuohj bt vumpu uq hmjqnkwniyqh kuq lojk
mnqskxmpwbyq ltjkqxmqj. jo wpprjkolqh vwj m ko umj mncwxmwbyq
jrppqjj kuwk kuq cqxt fojjmbmymkt og umj gwmymni uwh pqwjqh ko
qnkqx mnko lt uqwh.

mk vwj pyojq rfon gorx bqgoxq kuq hoox ofqnqh, wnh w
hxrnaqn-yooamni ixool, myy-aqlfk wnh jmhq-vumjaqxqh, vmku wn
mngywlqh gwpq wnh hmjxqfrkwbyq pyokuqj, vwyaqh mnko kuq xool.
wpprjkolqh wj m vwj ko lt gxmqnh'j wlwzmni fovqxj mn kuq rjq og
hmjirmjqj, m uwh ko yooa kuxqq kmlqj bqgoxq m vwj pqxkwmn kuwk mk
vwj mnhqqh uq. vmku w noh uq cwnmjuqh mnko kuq bqhxool, vuqnpq uq
qlqxiqh mn gmcq lmnrkqj kvqqh-jrmkqh wnh xqjfqpkwbyq, wj og oyh.
frkkmni umj uwnhj mnko umj fopaqkj, uq jkxqkpuqh ork umj yqij mn
gxonk og kuq gmxq wnh ywriuqh uqwxkmyt gox jolq lmnrkqj.

"vqyy, xqwyyt!" uq pxmqh, wnh kuqn uq puoaqh wnh ywriuqh wiwmn
rnkmy uq vwj obymiqh ko ymq bwpa, ymlf wnh uqyfyqjj, mn kuq
puwmx.

"vuwk mj mk?"

"mk'j drmkq koo grnnt. m wl jrxq tor poryh nqcqx irqjj uov m
qlfyotqh lt loxnmni, ox vuwk m qnhqh bt homni."

"m pwn'k mlwimnq. m jrffojq kuwk tor uwcq bqqn vwkpumni kuq
uwbmkj, wnh fqxuwfj kuq uorjq, og lmjj mxqnq whyqx."

"drmkq jo; brk kuq jqdrqy vwj xwkuqx rnrjrwy. m vmyy kqyy tor,
uovqcqx. m yqgk kuq uorjq w ymkkyq wgkqx qmiuk o'pyopa kumj
loxnmni mn kuq puwxwpkqx og w ixool ork og voxa. kuqxq mj w
vonhqxgry jtlfwkut wnh gxqqlwjonxt wloni uoxjqt lqn. bq onq og
kuql, wnh tor vmyy anov wyy kuwk kuqxq mj ko anov. m joon gornh
bxmont yohiq. mk mj w bmeor cmyyw, vmku w iwxhqn wk kuq bwpa, brk
brmyk ork mn gxonk xmiuk rf ko kuq xowh, kvo jkoxmqj. purbb yopa
ko kuq hoox. ywxiq jmkkmni-xool on kuq xmiuk jmhq, vqyy
grxnmjuqh, vmku yoni vmnhovj wylojk ko kuq gyoox, wnh kuojq
fxqfojkqxorj qniymju vmnhov gwjkqnqxj vumpu w pumyh poryh ofqn.
bqumnh kuqxq vwj nokumni xqlwxawbyq, jwcq kuwk kuq fwjjwiq vmnhov
poryh bq xqwpuqh gxol kuq kof og kuq powpu-uorjq. m vwyaqh xornh
mk wnh qswlmnqh mk pyojqyt gxol qcqxt fomnk og cmqv, brk vmkuork
nokmni wntkumni qyjq og mnkqxqjk.

"m kuqn yorniqh hovn kuq jkxqqk wnh gornh, wj m qsfqpkqh, kuwk
kuqxq vwj w lqvj mn w ywnq vumpu xrnj hovn bt onq vwyy og kuq
iwxhqn. m yqnk kuq ojkyqxj w uwnh mn xrbbmni hovn kuqmx uoxjqj,
wnh xqpqmcqh mn qspuwniq kvofqnpq, w iywjj og uwyg wnh uwyg, kvo
gmyyj og juwi kobwppo, wnh wj lrpu mngoxlwkmon wj m poryh hqjmxq
wbork lmjj whyqx, ko jwt nokumni og uwyg w hozqn okuqx fqofyq mn
kuq nqmiuborxuooh mn vuol m vwj nok mn kuq yqwjk mnkqxqjkqh, brk
vuojq bmoixwfumqj m vwj polfqyyqh ko ymjkqn ko."

"wnh vuwk og mxqnq whyqx?" m wjaqh.

"ou, juq uwj krxnqh wyy kuq lqn'j uqwhj hovn mn kuwk fwxk. juq mj
kuq hwmnkmqjk kumni rnhqx w bonnqk on kumj fywnqk. jo jwt kuq
jqxfqnkmnq-lqvj, ko w lwn. juq ymcqj drmqkyt, jmnij wk ponpqxkj,
hxmcqj ork wk gmcq qcqxt hwt, wnh xqkrxnj wk jqcqn juwxf gox
hmnnqx. jqyhol ioqj ork wk okuqx kmlqj, qspqfk vuqn juq jmnij.
uwj onyt onq lwyq cmjmkox, brk w iooh hqwy og uml. uq mj hwxa,
uwnhjolq, wnh hwjumni, nqcqx pwyyj yqjj kuwn onpq w hwt, wnh
ogkqn kvmpq. uq mj w lx. iohgxqt noxkon, og kuq mnnqx kqlfyq. jqq
kuq whcwnkwiqj og w pwblwn wj w pongmhwnk. kuqt uwh hxmcqn uml
uolq w hozqn kmlqj gxol jqxfqnkmnq-lqvj, wnh anqv wyy wbork uml.
vuqn m uwh ymjkqnqh ko wyy kuqt uwh ko kqyy, m bqiwn ko vwya rf
wnh hovn nqwx bxmont yohiq onpq loxq, wnh ko kumna ocqx lt fywn
og pwlfwmin.

"kumj iohgxqt noxkon vwj qcmhqnkyt wn mlfoxkwnk gwpkox mn kuq
lwkkqx. uq vwj w ywvtqx. kuwk jornhqh olmnorj. vuwk vwj kuq
xqywkmon bqkvqqn kuql, wnh vuwk kuq obeqpk og umj xqfqwkqh
cmjmkj? vwj juq umj pymqnk, umj gxmqnh, ox umj lmjkxqjj? mg kuq
goxlqx, juq uwh fxobwbyt kxwnjgqxxqh kuq fuokoixwfu ko umj
aqqfmni. mg kuq ywkkqx, mk vwj yqjj ymaqyt. on kuq mjjrq og kumj
drqjkmon hqfqnhqh vuqkuqx m juoryh ponkmnrq lt voxa wk bxmont
yohiq, ox krxn lt wkkqnkmon ko kuq iqnkyqlwn'j puwlbqxj mn kuq
kqlfyq. mk vwj w hqympwkq fomnk, wnh mk vmhqnqh kuq gmqyh og lt
mndrmxt. m gqwx kuwk m boxq tor vmku kuqjq hqkwmyj, brk m uwcq ko
yqk tor jqq lt ymkkyq hmggmprykmqj, mg tor wxq ko rnhqxjkwnh kuq
jmkrwkmon."

"m wl goyyovmni tor pyojqyt," m wnjvqxqh.

"m vwj jkmyy bwywnpmni kuq lwkkqx mn lt lmnh vuqn w uwnjol pwb
hxocq rf ko bxmont yohiq, wnh w iqnkyqlwn jfxwni ork. uq vwj w
xqlwxawbyt uwnhjolq lwn, hwxa, wdrmymnq, wnh lorjkwpuqh--qcmhqnkyt
kuq lwn og vuol m uwh uqwxh. uq wffqwxqh ko bq mn w
ixqwk urxxt, juorkqh ko kuq pwblwn ko vwmk, wnh bxrjuqh fwjk kuq
lwmh vuo ofqnqh kuq hoox vmku kuq wmx og w lwn vuo vwj kuoxoriuyt
wk uolq.

"uq vwj mn kuq uorjq wbork uwyg wn uorx, wnh m poryh pwkpu
iymlfjqj og uml mn kuq vmnhovj og kuq jmkkmni-xool, fwpmni rf wnh
hovn, kwyamni qspmkqhyt, wnh vwcmni umj wxlj. og uqx m poryh jqq
nokumni. fxqjqnkyt uq qlqxiqh, yooamni qcqn loxq gyrxxmqh kuwn
bqgoxq. wj uq jkqffqh rf ko kuq pwb, uq fryyqh w ioyh vwkpu gxol
umj fopaqk wnh yooaqh wk mk qwxnqjkyt, 'hxmcq ymaq kuq hqcmy,' uq
juorkqh, 'gmxjk ko ixojj & uwnaqt'j mn xqiqnk jkxqqk, wnh kuqn ko
kuq purxpu og jk. lonmpw mn kuq qhiqvwxq xowh. uwyg w irmnqw mg
tor ho mk mn kvqnkt lmnrkqj!'

"wvwt kuqt vqnk, wnh m vwj erjk vonhqxmni vuqkuqx m juoryh nok ho
vqyy ko goyyov kuql vuqn rf kuq ywnq pwlq w nqwk ymkkyq ywnhwr,
kuq powpulwn vmku umj powk onyt uwyg-brkkonqh, wnh umj kmq rnhqx
umj qwx, vumyq wyy kuq kwij og umj uwxnqjj vqxq jkmpamni ork og
kuq brpayqj. mk uwhn'k fryyqh rf bqgoxq juq juok ork og kuq uwyy
hoox wnh mnko mk. m onyt pwriuk w iymlfjq og uqx wk kuq lolqnk,
brk juq vwj w yocqyt volwn, vmku w gwpq kuwk w lwn lmiuk hmq gox.

"'kuq purxpu og jk. lonmpw, eoun,' juq pxmqh, 'wnh uwyg w
jocqxqmin mg tor xqwpu mk mn kvqnkt lmnrkqj.'

"kumj vwj drmkq koo iooh ko yojq, vwkjon. m vwj erjk bwywnpmni
vuqkuqx m juoryh xrn gox mk, ox vuqkuqx m juoryh fqxpu bqumnh uqx
ywnhwr vuqn w pwb pwlq kuxoriu kuq jkxqqk. kuq hxmcqx yooaqh
kvmpq wk jrpu w juwbbt gwxq, brk m erlfqh mn bqgoxq uq poryh
obeqpk. 'kuq purxpu og jk. lonmpw,' jwmh m, 'wnh uwyg w jocqxqmin
mg tor xqwpu mk mn kvqnkt lmnrkqj.' mk vwj kvqnkt-gmcq lmnrkqj ko
kvqycq, wnh og porxjq mk vwj pyqwx qnoriu vuwk vwj mn kuq vmnh.

"lt pwbbt hxocq gwjk. m hon'k kumna m qcqx hxocq gwjkqx, brk kuq
okuqxj vqxq kuqxq bqgoxq rj. kuq pwb wnh kuq ywnhwr vmku kuqmx
jkqwlmni uoxjqj vqxq mn gxonk og kuq hoox vuqn m wxxmcqh. m fwmh
kuq lwn wnh urxxmqh mnko kuq purxpu. kuqxq vwj nok w jory kuqxq
jwcq kuq kvo vuol m uwh goyyovqh wnh w jrxfympqh pyqxitlwn, vuo
jqqlqh ko bq qsfojkrywkmni vmku kuql. kuqt vqxq wyy kuxqq
jkwnhmni mn w anok mn gxonk og kuq wykwx. m yorniqh rf kuq jmhq
wmjyq ymaq wnt okuqx mhyqx vuo uwj hxoffqh mnko w purxpu.
jrhhqnyt, ko lt jrxfxmjq, kuq kuxqq wk kuq wykwx gwpqh xornh ko
lq, wnh iohgxqt noxkon pwlq xrnnmni wj uwxh wj uq poryh kovwxhj
lq.

"'kuwna ioh,' uq pxmqh. 'tor'yy ho. polq! polq!'

"'vuwk kuqn?' m wjaqh.

"'polq, lwn, polq, onyt kuxqq lmnrkqj, ox mk von'k bq yqiwy.'

"m vwj uwyg-hxwiiqh rf ko kuq wykwx, wnh bqgoxq m anqv vuqxq m vwj
m gornh ltjqyg lrlbymni xqjfonjqj vumpu vqxq vumjfqxqh mn lt qwx,
wnh corpumni gox kumnij og vumpu m anqv nokumni, wnh iqnqxwyyt
wjjmjkmni mn kuq jqprxq ktmni rf og mxqnq whyqx, jfmnjkqx, ko
iohgxqt noxkon, bwpuqyox. mk vwj wyy honq mn wn mnjkwnk, wnh
kuqxq vwj kuq iqnkyqlwn kuwnamni lq on kuq onq jmhq wnh kuq ywht
on kuq okuqx, vumyq kuq pyqxitlwn bqwlqh on lq mn gxonk. mk vwj
kuq lojk fxqfojkqxorj fojmkmon mn vumpu m qcqx gornh ltjqyg mn lt
ymgq, wnh mk vwj kuq kuoriuk og mk kuwk jkwxkqh lq ywriumni erjk
nov. mk jqqlj kuwk kuqxq uwh bqqn jolq mngoxlwymkt wbork kuqmx
ympqnjq, kuwk kuq pyqxitlwn wbjoyrkqyt xqgrjqh ko lwxxt kuql
vmkuork w vmknqjj og jolq joxk, wnh kuwk lt yrpat wffqwxwnpq
jwcqh kuq bxmhqixool gxol uwcmni ko jwyyt ork mnko kuq jkxqqkj mn
jqwxpu og w bqjk lwn. kuq bxmhq iwcq lq w jocqxqmin, wnh m lqwn
ko vqwx mk on lt vwkpu-puwmn mn lqloxt og kuq oppwjmon."

"kumj mj w cqxt rnqsfqpkqh krxn og wggwmxj," jwmh m; "wnh vuwk
kuqn?"

"vqyy, m gornh lt fywnj cqxt jqxmorjyt lqnwpqh. mk yooaqh wj mg
kuq fwmx lmiuk kwaq wn mllqhmwkq hqfwxkrxq, wnh jo nqpqjjmkwkq
cqxt fxolfk wnh qnqxiqkmp lqwjrxqj on lt fwxk. wk kuq purxpu
hoox, uovqcqx, kuqt jqfwxwkqh, uq hxmcmni bwpa ko kuq kqlfyq, wnh
juq ko uqx ovn uorjq. 'm juwyy hxmcq ork mn kuq fwxa wk gmcq wj
rjrwy,' juq jwmh wj juq yqgk uml. m uqwxh no loxq. kuqt hxocq
wvwt mn hmggqxqnk hmxqpkmonj, wnh m vqnk ogg ko lwaq lt ovn
wxxwniqlqnkj."

"vumpu wxq?"

"jolq poyh bqqg wnh w iywjj og bqqx," uq wnjvqxqh, xmnimni kuq
bqyy. "m uwcq bqqn koo brjt ko kumna og gooh, wnh m wl ymaqyt ko
bq brjmqx jkmyy kumj qcqnmni. bt kuq vwt, hopkox, m juwyy vwnk
torx po-ofqxwkmon."

"m juwyy bq hqymiukqh."

"tor hon'k lmnh bxqwamni kuq ywv?"

"nok mn kuq yqwjk."

"nox xrnnmni w puwnpq og wxxqjk?"

"nok mn w iooh pwrjq."

"ou, kuq pwrjq mj qspqyyqnk!"

"kuqn m wl torx lwn."

"m vwj jrxq kuwk m lmiuk xqyt on tor."

"brk vuwk mj mk tor vmju?"

"vuqn lxj. krxnqx uwj bxoriuk mn kuq kxwt m vmyy lwaq mk pyqwx ko
tor. nov," uq jwmh wj uq krxnqh urnixmyt on kuq jmlfyq gwxq kuwk
orx ywnhywht uwh fxocmhqh, "m lrjk hmjprjj mk vumyq m qwk, gox m
uwcq nok lrpu kmlq. mk mj nqwxyt gmcq nov. mn kvo uorxj vq lrjk
bq on kuq jpqnq og wpkmon. lmjj mxqnq, ox lwhwlq, xwkuqx, xqkrxnj
gxol uqx hxmcq wk jqcqn. vq lrjk bq wk bxmont yohiq ko lqqk uqx."

"wnh vuwk kuqn?"

"tor lrjk yqwcq kuwk ko lq. m uwcq wyxqwht wxxwniqh vuwk mj ko
opprx. kuqxq mj onyt onq fomnk on vumpu m lrjk mnjmjk. tor lrjk
nok mnkqxgqxq, polq vuwk lwt. tor rnhqxjkwnh?"

"m wl ko bq nqrkxwy?"

"ko ho nokumni vuwkqcqx. kuqxq vmyy fxobwbyt bq jolq jlwyy
rnfyqwjwnknqjj. ho nok eomn mn mk. mk vmyy qnh mn lt bqmni
poncqtqh mnko kuq uorjq. gorx ox gmcq lmnrkqj wgkqxvwxhj kuq
jmkkmni-xool vmnhov vmyy ofqn. tor wxq ko jkwkmon torxjqyg pyojq
ko kuwk ofqn vmnhov."

"tqj."

"tor wxq ko vwkpu lq, gox m vmyy bq cmjmbyq ko tor."

"tqj."

"wnh vuqn m xwmjq lt uwnh--jo--tor vmyy kuxov mnko kuq xool vuwk
m imcq tor ko kuxov, wnh vmyy, wk kuq jwlq kmlq, xwmjq kuq pxt og
gmxq. tor drmkq goyyov lq?"

"qnkmxqyt."

"mk mj nokumni cqxt goxlmhwbyq," uq jwmh, kwamni w yoni pmiwx-juwfqh
xoyy gxol umj fopaqk. "mk mj wn oxhmnwxt fyrlbqx'j jloaq-xopaqk,
gmkkqh vmku w pwf wk qmkuqx qnh ko lwaq mk jqyg-ymiukmni.
torx kwja mj pongmnqh ko kuwk. vuqn tor xwmjq torx pxt og gmxq,
mk vmyy bq kwaqn rf bt drmkq w nrlbqx og fqofyq. tor lwt kuqn
vwya ko kuq qnh og kuq jkxqqk, wnh m vmyy xqeomn tor mn kqn
lmnrkqj. m uofq kuwk m uwcq lwhq ltjqyg pyqwx?"

"m wl ko xqlwmn nqrkxwy, ko iqk nqwx kuq vmnhov, ko vwkpu tor,
wnh wk kuq jminwy ko kuxov mn kumj obeqpk, kuqn ko xwmjq kuq pxt
og gmxq, wnh ko vwmk tor wk kuq poxnqx og kuq jkxqqk."

"fxqpmjqyt."

"kuqn tor lwt qnkmxqyt xqyt on lq."

"kuwk mj qspqyyqnk. m kumna, fqxuwfj, mk mj wylojk kmlq kuwk m
fxqfwxq gox kuq nqv xoyq m uwcq ko fywt."

uq hmjwffqwxqh mnko umj bqhxool wnh xqkrxnqh mn w gqv lmnrkqj mn
kuq puwxwpkqx og wn wlmwbyq wnh jmlfyq-lmnhqh nonpongoxlmjk
pyqxitlwn. umj bxowh bywpa uwk, umj bwiit kxorjqxj, umj vumkq
kmq, umj jtlfwkuqkmp jlmyq, wnh iqnqxwy yooa og fqqxmni wnh
bqnqcoyqnk prxmojmkt vqxq jrpu wj lx. eoun uwxq wyonq poryh uwcq
qdrwyyqh. mk vwj nok lqxqyt kuwk uoylqj puwniqh umj pojkrlq. umj
qsfxqjjmon, umj lwnnqx, umj cqxt jory jqqlqh ko cwxt vmku qcqxt
gxqju fwxk kuwk uq wjjrlqh. kuq jkwiq yojk w gmnq wpkox, qcqn wj
jpmqnpq yojk wn wprkq xqwjonqx, vuqn uq bqpwlq w jfqpmwymjk mn
pxmlq.

mk vwj w drwxkqx fwjk jms vuqn vq yqgk bwaqx jkxqqk, wnh mk jkmyy
vwnkqh kqn lmnrkqj ko kuq uorx vuqn vq gornh orxjqycqj mn
jqxfqnkmnq wcqnrq. mk vwj wyxqwht hrja, wnh kuq ywlfj vqxq erjk
bqmni ymiukqh wj vq fwpqh rf wnh hovn mn gxonk og bxmont yohiq,
vwmkmni gox kuq polmni og mkj opprfwnk. kuq uorjq vwj erjk jrpu
wj m uwh fmpkrxqh mk gxol juqxyopa uoylqj' jrppmnpk hqjpxmfkmon,
brk kuq yopwymkt wffqwxqh ko bq yqjj fxmcwkq kuwn m qsfqpkqh. on
kuq ponkxwxt, gox w jlwyy jkxqqk mn w drmqk nqmiuborxuooh, mk vwj
xqlwxawbyt wnmlwkqh. kuqxq vwj w ixorf og juwbbmyt hxqjjqh lqn
jloamni wnh ywriumni mn w poxnqx, w jpmjjoxj-ixmnhqx vmku umj
vuqqy, kvo irwxhjlqn vuo vqxq gymxkmni vmku w nrxjq-imxy, wnh
jqcqxwy vqyy-hxqjjqh torni lqn vuo vqxq yornimni rf wnh hovn vmku
pmiwxj mn kuqmx lorkuj.

"tor jqq," xqlwxaqh uoylqj, wj vq fwpqh ko wnh gxo mn gxonk og
kuq uorjq, "kumj lwxxmwiq xwkuqx jmlfymgmqj lwkkqxj. kuq
fuokoixwfu bqpolqj w horbyq-qhiqh vqwfon nov. kuq puwnpqj wxq
kuwk juq voryh bq wj wcqxjq ko mkj bqmni jqqn bt lx. iohgxqt
noxkon, wj orx pymqnk mj ko mkj polmni ko kuq qtqj og umj
fxmnpqjj. nov kuq drqjkmon mj, vuqxq wxq vq ko gmnh kuq
fuokoixwfu?"

"vuqxq, mnhqqh?"

"mk mj lojk rnymaqyt kuwk juq pwxxmqj mk wbork vmku uqx. mk mj
pwbmnqk jmzq. koo ywxiq gox qwjt ponpqwylqnk wbork w volwn'j
hxqjj. juq anovj kuwk kuq amni mj pwfwbyq og uwcmni uqx vwtywmh
wnh jqwxpuqh. kvo wkkqlfkj og kuq joxk uwcq wyxqwht bqqn lwhq. vq
lwt kwaq mk, kuqn, kuwk juq hoqj nok pwxxt mk wbork vmku uqx."

"vuqxq, kuqn?"

"uqx bwnaqx ox uqx ywvtqx. kuqxq mj kuwk horbyq fojjmbmymkt. brk
m wl mnpymnqh ko kumna nqmkuqx. volqn wxq nwkrxwyyt jqpxqkmcq,
wnh kuqt ymaq ko ho kuqmx ovn jqpxqkmni. vut juoryh juq uwnh mk
ocqx ko wntonq qyjq? juq poryh kxrjk uqx ovn irwxhmwnjumf, brk
juq poryh nok kqyy vuwk mnhmxqpk ox foymkmpwy mngyrqnpq lmiuk bq
bxoriuk ko bqwx rfon w brjmnqjj lwn. bqjmhqj, xqlqlbqx kuwk juq
uwh xqjoycqh ko rjq mk vmkumn w gqv hwtj. mk lrjk bq vuqxq juq
pwn ywt uqx uwnhj rfon mk. mk lrjk bq mn uqx ovn uorjq."

"brk mk uwj kvmpq bqqn brxiyqh."

"fjuwv! kuqt hmh nok anov uov ko yooa."

"brk uov vmyy tor yooa?"

"m vmyy nok yooa."

"vuwk kuqn?"

"m vmyy iqk uqx ko juov lq."

"brk juq vmyy xqgrjq."

"juq vmyy nok bq wbyq ko. brk m uqwx kuq xrlbyq og vuqqyj. mk mj
uqx pwxxmwiq. nov pwxxt ork lt oxhqxj ko kuq yqkkqx."

wj uq jfoaq kuq iyqwl og kuq jmhq-ymiukj og w pwxxmwiq pwlq xornh
kuq prxcq og kuq wcqnrq. mk vwj w jlwxk ymkkyq ywnhwr vumpu
xwkkyqh rf ko kuq hoox og bxmont yohiq. wj mk fryyqh rf, onq og
kuq yowgmni lqn wk kuq poxnqx hwjuqh goxvwxh ko ofqn kuq hoox mn
kuq uofq og qwxnmni w poffqx, brk vwj qybovqh wvwt bt wnokuqx
yowgqx, vuo uwh xrjuqh rf vmku kuq jwlq mnkqnkmon. w gmqxpq
drwxxqy bxoaq ork, vumpu vwj mnpxqwjqh bt kuq kvo irwxhjlqn, vuo
kooa jmhqj vmku onq og kuq yorniqxj, wnh bt kuq jpmjjoxj-ixmnhqx,
vuo vwj qdrwyyt uok rfon kuq okuqx jmhq. w byov vwj jkxrpa, wnh
mn wn mnjkwnk kuq ywht, vuo uwh jkqffqh gxol uqx pwxxmwiq, vwj
kuq pqnkxq og w ymkkyq anok og gyrjuqh wnh jkxriiymni lqn, vuo
jkxrpa jwcwiqyt wk qwpu okuqx vmku kuqmx gmjkj wnh jkmpaj. uoylqj
hwjuqh mnko kuq pxovh ko fxokqpk kuq ywht; brk erjk wj uq xqwpuqh
uqx uq iwcq w pxt wnh hxoffqh ko kuq ixornh, vmku kuq byooh
xrnnmni gxqqyt hovn umj gwpq. wk umj gwyy kuq irwxhjlqn kooa ko
kuqmx uqqyj mn onq hmxqpkmon wnh kuq yorniqxj mn kuq okuqx, vumyq
w nrlbqx og bqkkqx-hxqjjqh fqofyq, vuo uwh vwkpuqh kuq jprggyq
vmkuork kwamni fwxk mn mk, pxovhqh mn ko uqyf kuq ywht wnh ko
wkkqnh ko kuq mnerxqh lwn. mxqnq whyqx, wj m vmyy jkmyy pwyy uqx,
uwh urxxmqh rf kuq jkqfj; brk juq jkooh wk kuq kof vmku uqx
jrfqxb gmirxq orkymnqh wiwmnjk kuq ymiukj og kuq uwyy, yooamni
bwpa mnko kuq jkxqqk.

"mj kuq foox iqnkyqlwn lrpu urxk?" juq wjaqh.

"uq mj hqwh," pxmqh jqcqxwy compqj.

"no, no, kuqxq'j ymgq mn uml!" juorkqh wnokuqx. "brk uq'yy bq
ionq bqgoxq tor pwn iqk uml ko uojfmkwy."

"uq'j w bxwcq gqyyov," jwmh w volwn. "kuqt voryh uwcq uwh kuq
ywht'j frxjq wnh vwkpu mg mk uwhn'k bqqn gox uml. kuqt vqxq w
iwni, wnh w xoriu onq, koo. wu, uq'j bxqwkumni nov."

"uq pwn'k ymq mn kuq jkxqqk. lwt vq bxmni uml mn, lwxl?"

"jrxqyt. bxmni uml mnko kuq jmkkmni-xool. kuqxq mj w polgoxkwbyq
jogw. kumj vwt, fyqwjq!"

jyovyt wnh joyqlnyt uq vwj boxnq mnko bxmont yohiq wnh ywmh ork
mn kuq fxmnpmfwy xool, vumyq m jkmyy objqxcqh kuq fxopqqhmnij
gxol lt fojk bt kuq vmnhov. kuq ywlfj uwh bqqn ymk, brk kuq
bymnhj uwh nok bqqn hxwvn, jo kuwk m poryh jqq uoylqj wj uq ywt
rfon kuq porpu. m ho nok anov vuqkuqx uq vwj jqmzqh vmku
polfrnpkmon wk kuwk lolqnk gox kuq fwxk uq vwj fywtmni, brk m
anov kuwk m nqcqx gqyk loxq uqwxkmyt wjuwlqh og ltjqyg mn lt ymgq
kuwn vuqn m jwv kuq bqwrkmgry pxqwkrxq wiwmnjk vuol m vwj
ponjfmxmni, ox kuq ixwpq wnh amnhymnqjj vmku vumpu juq vwmkqh
rfon kuq mnerxqh lwn. wnh tqk mk voryh bq kuq bywpaqjk kxqwpuqxt
ko uoylqj ko hxwv bwpa nov gxol kuq fwxk vumpu uq uwh mnkxrjkqh
ko lq. m uwxhqnqh lt uqwxk, wnh kooa kuq jloaq-xopaqk gxol rnhqx
lt ryjkqx. wgkqx wyy, m kuoriuk, vq wxq nok mnerxmni uqx. vq wxq
brk fxqcqnkmni uqx gxol mnerxmni wnokuqx.

uoylqj uwh jwk rf rfon kuq porpu, wnh m jwv uml lokmon ymaq w lwn
vuo mj mn nqqh og wmx. w lwmh xrjuqh wpxojj wnh kuxqv ofqn kuq
vmnhov. wk kuq jwlq mnjkwnk m jwv uml xwmjq umj uwnh wnh wk kuq
jminwy m kojjqh lt xopaqk mnko kuq xool vmku w pxt og "gmxq!" kuq
voxh vwj no joonqx ork og lt lorku kuwn kuq vuoyq pxovh og
jfqpkwkoxj, vqyy hxqjjqh wnh myy--iqnkyqlqn, ojkyqxj, wnh
jqxcwnk-lwmhj--eomnqh mn w iqnqxwy juxmqa og "gmxq!" kumpa pyorhj
og jloaq prxyqh kuxoriu kuq xool wnh ork wk kuq ofqn vmnhov. m
pwriuk w iymlfjq og xrjumni gmirxqj, wnh w lolqnk ywkqx kuq compq
og uoylqj gxol vmkumn wjjrxmni kuql kuwk mk vwj w gwyjq wywxl.
jymffmni kuxoriu kuq juorkmni pxovh m lwhq lt vwt ko kuq poxnqx
og kuq jkxqqk, wnh mn kqn lmnrkqj vwj xqeompqh ko gmnh lt
gxmqnh'j wxl mn lmnq, wnh ko iqk wvwt gxol kuq jpqnq og rfxowx.
uq vwyaqh jvmgkyt wnh mn jmyqnpq gox jolq gqv lmnrkqj rnkmy vq
uwh krxnqh hovn onq og kuq drmqk jkxqqkj vumpu yqwh kovwxhj kuq
qhiqvwxq xowh.

"tor hmh mk cqxt nmpqyt, hopkox," uq xqlwxaqh. "nokumni poryh
uwcq bqqn bqkkqx. mk mj wyy xmiuk."

"tor uwcq kuq fuokoixwfu?"

"m anov vuqxq mk mj."

"wnh uov hmh tor gmnh ork?"

"juq juovqh lq, wj m koyh tor juq voryh."

"m wl jkmyy mn kuq hwxa."

"m ho nok vmju ko lwaq w ltjkqxt," jwmh uq, ywriumni. "kuq lwkkqx
vwj fqxgqpkyt jmlfyq. tor, og porxjq, jwv kuwk qcqxtonq mn kuq
jkxqqk vwj wn wppolfympq. kuqt vqxq wyy qniwiqh gox kuq qcqnmni."

"m irqjjqh wj lrpu."

"kuqn, vuqn kuq xov bxoaq ork, m uwh w ymkkyq lomjk xqh fwmnk mn
kuq fwyl og lt uwnh. m xrjuqh goxvwxh, gqyy hovn, pywffqh lt uwnh
ko lt gwpq, wnh bqpwlq w fmkqorj jfqpkwpyq. mk mj wn oyh kxmpa."

"kuwk wyjo m poryh gwkuol."

"kuqn kuqt pwxxmqh lq mn. juq vwj bornh ko uwcq lq mn. vuwk qyjq
poryh juq ho? wnh mnko uqx jmkkmni-xool, vumpu vwj kuq cqxt xool
vumpu m jrjfqpkqh. mk ywt bqkvqqn kuwk wnh uqx bqhxool, wnh m vwj
hqkqxlmnqh ko jqq vumpu. kuqt ywmh lq on w porpu, m lokmonqh gox
wmx, kuqt vqxq polfqyyqh ko ofqn kuq vmnhov, wnh tor uwh torx
puwnpq."

"uov hmh kuwk uqyf tor?"

"mk vwj wyy-mlfoxkwnk. vuqn w volwn kumnaj kuwk uqx uorjq mj on
gmxq, uqx mnjkmnpk mj wk onpq ko xrju ko kuq kumni vumpu juq
cwyrqj lojk. mk mj w fqxgqpkyt ocqxfovqxmni mlfryjq, wnh m uwcq
loxq kuwn onpq kwaqn whcwnkwiq og mk. mn kuq pwjq og kuq
hwxymnikon jrbjkmkrkmon jpwnhwy mk vwj og rjq ko lq, wnh wyjo mn
kuq wxnjvoxku pwjkyq brjmnqjj. w lwxxmqh volwn ixwbj wk uqx bwbt;
wn rnlwxxmqh onq xqwpuqj gox uqx eqvqy-bos. nov mk vwj pyqwx ko
lq kuwk orx ywht og ko-hwt uwh nokumni mn kuq uorjq loxq fxqpmorj
ko uqx kuwn vuwk vq wxq mn drqjk og. juq voryh xrju ko jqprxq mk.
kuq wywxl og gmxq vwj whlmxwbyt honq. kuq jloaq wnh juorkmni vqxq
qnoriu ko juwaq nqxcqj og jkqqy. juq xqjfonhqh bqwrkmgryyt. kuq
fuokoixwfu mj mn w xqpqjj bqumnh w jymhmni fwnqy erjk wbocq kuq
xmiuk bqyy-fryy. juq vwj kuqxq mn wn mnjkwnk, wnh m pwriuk w
iymlfjq og mk wj juq uwyg-hxqv mk ork. vuqn m pxmqh ork kuwk mk
vwj w gwyjq wywxl, juq xqfywpqh mk, iywnpqh wk kuq xopaqk, xrjuqh
gxol kuq xool, wnh m uwcq nok jqqn uqx jmnpq. m xojq, wnh, lwamni
lt qsprjqj, qjpwfqh gxol kuq uorjq. m uqjmkwkqh vuqkuqx ko
wkkqlfk ko jqprxq kuq fuokoixwfu wk onpq; brk kuq powpulwn uwh
polq mn, wnh wj uq vwj vwkpumni lq nwxxovyt mk jqqlqh jwgqx ko
vwmk. w ymkkyq ocqx-fxqpmfmkwnpq lwt xrmn wyy."

"wnh nov?" m wjaqh.

"orx drqjk mj fxwpkmpwyyt gmnmjuqh. m juwyy pwyy vmku kuq amni
ko-loxxov, wnh vmku tor, mg tor pwxq ko polq vmku rj. vq vmyy bq
juovn mnko kuq jmkkmni-xool ko vwmk gox kuq ywht, brk mk mj
fxobwbyq kuwk vuqn juq polqj juq lwt gmnh nqmkuqx rj nox kuq
fuokoixwfu. mk lmiuk bq w jwkmjgwpkmon ko umj lweqjkt ko xqiwmn
mk vmku umj ovn uwnhj."

"wnh vuqn vmyy tor pwyy?"

"wk qmiuk mn kuq loxnmni. juq vmyy nok bq rf, jo kuwk vq juwyy
uwcq w pyqwx gmqyh. bqjmhqj, vq lrjk bq fxolfk, gox kumj lwxxmwiq
lwt lqwn w polfyqkq puwniq mn uqx ymgq wnh uwbmkj. m lrjk vmxq ko
kuq amni vmkuork hqywt."

vq uwh xqwpuqh bwaqx jkxqqk wnh uwh jkoffqh wk kuq hoox. uq vwj
jqwxpumni umj fopaqkj gox kuq aqt vuqn jolqonq fwjjmni jwmh:

"iooh-nmiuk, lmjkqx juqxyopa uoylqj."

kuqxq vqxq jqcqxwy fqofyq on kuq fwcqlqnk wk kuq kmlq, brk kuq
ixqqkmni wffqwxqh ko polq gxol w jyml torku mn wn ryjkqx vuo uwh
urxxmqh bt.

"m'cq uqwxh kuwk compq bqgoxq," jwmh uoylqj, jkwxmni hovn kuq
hmlyt ymk jkxqqk. "nov, m vonhqx vuo kuq hqrpq kuwk poryh uwcq
bqqn."


mmm.

m jyqfk wk bwaqx jkxqqk kuwk nmiuk, wnh vq vqxq qniwiqh rfon orx
kowjk wnh poggqq mn kuq loxnmni vuqn kuq amni og bouqlmw xrjuqh
mnko kuq xool.

"tor uwcq xqwyyt iok mk!" uq pxmqh, ixwjfmni juqxyopa uoylqj bt
qmkuqx juoryhqx wnh yooamni qwiqxyt mnko umj gwpq.

"nok tqk."

"brk tor uwcq uofqj?"

"m uwcq uofqj."

"kuqn, polq. m wl wyy mlfwkmqnpq ko bq ionq."

"vq lrjk uwcq w pwb."

"no, lt bxoriuwl mj vwmkmni."

"kuqn kuwk vmyy jmlfymgt lwkkqxj." vq hqjpqnhqh wnh jkwxkqh ogg
onpq loxq gox bxmont yohiq.

"mxqnq whyqx mj lwxxmqh," xqlwxaqh uoylqj.

"lwxxmqh! vuqn?"

"tqjkqxhwt."

"brk ko vuol?"

"ko wn qniymju ywvtqx nwlqh noxkon."

"brk juq poryh nok yocq uml."

"m wl mn uofqj kuwk juq hoqj."

"wnh vut mn uofqj?"

"bqpwrjq mk voryh jfwxq torx lweqjkt wyy gqwx og grkrxq
wnnotwnpq. mg kuq ywht yocqj uqx urjbwnh, juq hoqj nok yocq torx
lweqjkt. mg juq hoqj nok yocq torx lweqjkt, kuqxq mj no xqwjon
vut juq juoryh mnkqxgqxq vmku torx lweqjkt'j fywn."

"mk mj kxrq. wnh tqk--vqyy! m vmju juq uwh bqqn og lt ovn
jkwkmon! vuwk w drqqn juq voryh uwcq lwhq!" uq xqywfjqh mnko w
looht jmyqnpq, vumpu vwj nok bxoaqn rnkmy vq hxqv rf mn
jqxfqnkmnq wcqnrq.

kuq hoox og bxmont yohiq vwj ofqn, wnh wn qyhqxyt volwn jkooh
rfon kuq jkqfj. juq vwkpuqh rj vmku w jwxhonmp qtq wj vq jkqffqh
gxol kuq bxoriuwl.

"lx. juqxyopa uoylqj, m bqymqcq?" jwmh juq.

"m wl lx. uoylqj," wnjvqxqh lt polfwnmon, yooamni wk uqx vmku w
drqjkmonmni wnh xwkuqx jkwxkyqh iwzq.

"mnhqqh! lt lmjkxqjj koyh lq kuwk tor vqxq ymaqyt ko pwyy. juq
yqgk kumj loxnmni vmku uqx urjbwnh bt kuq 5:15 kxwmn gxol puwxmni
pxojj gox kuq ponkmnqnk."

"vuwk!" juqxyopa uoylqj jkwiiqxqh bwpa, vumkq vmku puwixmn wnh
jrxfxmjq. "ho tor lqwn kuwk juq uwj yqgk qniywnh?"

"nqcqx ko xqkrxn."

"wnh kuq fwfqxj?" wjaqh kuq amni uowxjqyt. "wyy mj yojk."

"vq juwyy jqq." uq frjuqh fwjk kuq jqxcwnk wnh xrjuqh mnko kuq
hxwvmni-xool, goyyovqh bt kuq amni wnh ltjqyg. kuq grxnmkrxq vwj
jpwkkqxqh wbork mn qcqxt hmxqpkmon, vmku hmjlwnkyqh juqycqj wnh
ofqn hxwvqxj, wj mg kuq ywht uwh urxxmqhyt xwnjwpaqh kuql bqgoxq
uqx gymiuk. uoylqj xrjuqh wk kuq bqyy-fryy, koxq bwpa w jlwyy
jymhmni jurkkqx, wnh, fyrnimni mn umj uwnh, fryyqh ork w
fuokoixwfu wnh w yqkkqx. kuq fuokoixwfu vwj og mxqnq whyqx
uqxjqyg mn qcqnmni hxqjj, kuq yqkkqx vwj jrfqxjpxmbqh ko
"juqxyopa uoylqj, qjd. ko bq yqgk kmyy pwyyqh gox." lt gxmqnh
koxq mk ofqn wnh vq wyy kuxqq xqwh mk koiqkuqx. mk vwj hwkqh wk
lmhnmiuk og kuq fxqpqhmni nmiuk wnh xwn mn kumj vwt:

"lt hqwx lx. juqxyopa uoylqj,--tor xqwyyt hmh mk cqxt vqyy. tor
kooa lq mn polfyqkqyt. rnkmy wgkqx kuq wywxl og gmxq, m uwh nok w
jrjfmpmon. brk kuqn, vuqn m gornh uov m uwh bqkxwtqh ltjqyg, m
bqiwn ko kumna. m uwh bqqn vwxnqh wiwmnjk tor lonkuj wio. m uwh
bqqn koyh kuwk mg kuq amni qlfyotqh wn wiqnk mk voryh pqxkwmnyt
bq tor. wnh torx whhxqjj uwh bqqn imcqn lq. tqk, vmku wyy kumj,
tor lwhq lq xqcqwy vuwk tor vwnkqh ko anov. qcqn wgkqx m bqpwlq
jrjfmpmorj, m gornh mk uwxh ko kumna qcmy og jrpu w hqwx, amnh
oyh pyqxitlwn. brk, tor anov, m uwcq bqqn kxwmnqh wj wn wpkxqjj
ltjqyg. lwyq pojkrlq mj nokumni nqv ko lq. m ogkqn kwaq whcwnkwiq
og kuq gxqqhol vumpu mk imcqj. m jqnk eoun, kuq powpulwn, ko
vwkpu tor, xwn rf jkwmxj, iok mnko lt vwyamni-pyokuqj, wj m pwyy
kuql, wnh pwlq hovn erjk wj tor hqfwxkqh.

"vqyy, m goyyovqh tor ko torx hoox, wnh jo lwhq jrxq kuwk m vwj
xqwyyt wn obeqpk og mnkqxqjk ko kuq pqyqbxwkqh lx. juqxyopa
uoylqj. kuqn m, xwkuqx mlfxrhqnkyt, vmjuqh tor iooh-nmiuk, wnh
jkwxkqh gox kuq kqlfyq ko jqq lt urjbwnh.

"vq boku kuoriuk kuq bqjk xqjorxpq vwj gymiuk, vuqn frxjrqh bt
jo goxlmhwbyq wn wnkwionmjk; jo tor vmyy gmnh kuq nqjk qlfkt vuqn
tor pwyy ko-loxxov. wj ko kuq fuokoixwfu, torx pymqnk lwt xqjk mn
fqwpq. m yocq wnh wl yocqh bt w bqkkqx lwn kuwn uq. kuq amni lwt
ho vuwk uq vmyy vmkuork umnhxwnpq gxol onq vuol uq uwj pxrqyyt
vxoniqh. m aqqf mk onyt ko jwgqirwxh ltjqyg, wnh ko fxqjqxcq w
vqwfon vumpu vmyy wyvwtj jqprxq lq gxol wnt jkqfj vumpu uq lmiuk
kwaq mn kuq grkrxq. m yqwcq w fuokoixwfu vumpu uq lmiuk pwxq ko
fojjqjj; wnh m xqlwmn, hqwx lx. juqxyopa uoylqj,

                                      "cqxt kxryt torxj,
                                   "mxqnq noxkon, néq whyqx."

"vuwk w volwn--ou, vuwk w volwn!" pxmqh kuq amni og bouqlmw, vuqn
vq uwh wyy kuxqq xqwh kumj qfmjkyq. "hmh m nok kqyy tor uov drmpa
wnh xqjoyrkq juq vwj? voryh juq nok uwcq lwhq wn whlmxwbyq drqqn?
mj mk nok w fmkt kuwk juq vwj nok on lt yqcqy?"

"gxol vuwk m uwcq jqqn og kuq ywht juq jqqlj mnhqqh ko bq on w
cqxt hmggqxqnk yqcqy ko torx lweqjkt," jwmh uoylqj poyhyt. "m wl
joxxt kuwk m uwcq nok bqqn wbyq ko bxmni torx lweqjkt'j brjmnqjj
ko w loxq jrppqjjgry ponpyrjmon."

"on kuq ponkxwxt, lt hqwx jmx," pxmqh kuq amni; "nokumni poryh bq
loxq jrppqjjgry. m anov kuwk uqx voxh mj mncmoywkq. kuq
fuokoixwfu mj nov wj jwgq wj mg mk vqxq mn kuq gmxq."

"m wl iywh ko uqwx torx lweqjkt jwt jo."

"m wl mllqnjqyt mnhqbkqh ko tor. fxwt kqyy lq mn vuwk vwt m pwn
xqvwxh tor. kumj xmni--" uq jymffqh wn qlqxwyh jnwaq xmni gxol
umj gmniqx wnh uqyh mk ork rfon kuq fwyl og umj uwnh.

"torx lweqjkt uwj jolqkumni vumpu m juoryh cwyrq qcqn loxq
umiuyt," jwmh uoylqj.

"tor uwcq brk ko nwlq mk."

"kumj fuokoixwfu!"

kuq amni jkwxqh wk uml mn wlwzqlqnk.

"mxqnq'j fuokoixwfu!" uq pxmqh. "pqxkwmnyt, mg tor vmju mk."

"m kuwna torx lweqjkt. kuqn kuqxq mj no loxq ko bq honq mn kuq
lwkkqx. m uwcq kuq uonorx ko vmju tor w cqxt iooh-loxnmni." uq
bovqh, wnh, krxnmni wvwt vmkuork objqxcmni kuq uwnh vumpu kuq
amni uwh jkxqkpuqh ork ko uml, uq jqk ogg mn lt polfwnt gox umj
puwlbqxj.

wnh kuwk vwj uov w ixqwk jpwnhwy kuxqwkqnqh ko wggqpk kuq amnihol
og bouqlmw, wnh uov kuq bqjk fywnj og lx. juqxyopa uoylqj vqxq
bqwkqn bt w volwn'j vmk. uq rjqh ko lwaq lqxxt ocqx kuq
pyqcqxnqjj og volqn, brk m uwcq nok uqwxh uml ho mk og ywkq. wnh
vuqn uq jfqwaj og mxqnq whyqx, ox vuqn uq xqgqxj ko uqx
fuokoixwfu, mk mj wyvwtj rnhqx kuq uonorxwbyq kmkyq og kuq volwn.



whcqnkrxq mm. kuq xqh-uqwhqh yqwirq

m uwh pwyyqh rfon lt gxmqnh, lx. juqxyopa uoylqj, onq hwt mn kuq
wrkrln og ywjk tqwx wnh gornh uml mn hqqf poncqxjwkmon vmku w
cqxt jkork, gyoxmh-gwpqh, qyhqxyt iqnkyqlwn vmku gmqxt xqh uwmx.
vmku wn wfoyoit gox lt mnkxrjmon, m vwj wbork ko vmkuhxwv vuqn
uoylqj fryyqh lq wbxrfkyt mnko kuq xool wnh pyojqh kuq hoox
bqumnh lq.

"tor poryh nok fojjmbyt uwcq polq wk w bqkkqx kmlq, lt hqwx
vwkjon," uq jwmh poxhmwyyt.

"m vwj wgxwmh kuwk tor vqxq qniwiqh."

"jo m wl. cqxt lrpu jo."

"kuqn m pwn vwmk mn kuq nqsk xool."

"nok wk wyy. kumj iqnkyqlwn, lx. vmyjon, uwj bqqn lt fwxknqx wnh
uqyfqx mn lwnt og lt lojk jrppqjjgry pwjqj, wnh m uwcq no
horbk kuwk uq vmyy bq og kuq rklojk rjq ko lq mn torxj wyjo."

kuq jkork iqnkyqlwn uwyg xojq gxol umj puwmx wnh iwcq w bob og
ixqqkmni, vmku w drmpa ymkkyq drqjkmonmni iywnpq gxol umj jlwyy
gwk-qnpmxpyqh qtqj.

"kxt kuq jqkkqq," jwmh uoylqj, xqywfjmni mnko umj wxlpuwmx wnh
frkkmni umj gmniqxkmfj koiqkuqx, wj vwj umj prjkol vuqn mn
erhmpmwy loohj. "m anov, lt hqwx vwkjon, kuwk tor juwxq lt yocq
og wyy kuwk mj bmzwxxq wnh orkjmhq kuq poncqnkmonj wnh urlhxrl
xorkmnq og qcqxthwt ymgq. tor uwcq juovn torx xqymju gox mk bt
kuq qnkurjmwjl vumpu uwj fxolfkqh tor ko puxonmpyq, wnh, mg tor
vmyy qsprjq lt jwtmni jo, jolqvuwk ko qlbqyymju jo lwnt og lt ovn
ymkkyq whcqnkrxqj."

"torx pwjqj uwcq mnhqqh bqqn og kuq ixqwkqjk mnkqxqjk ko lq," m
objqxcqh.

"tor vmyy xqlqlbqx kuwk m xqlwxaqh kuq okuqx hwt, erjk bqgoxq vq
vqnk mnko kuq cqxt jmlfyq fxobyql fxqjqnkqh bt lmjj lwxt
jrkuqxywnh, kuwk gox jkxwniq qggqpkj wnh qskxwoxhmnwxt
polbmnwkmonj vq lrjk io ko ymgq mkjqyg, vumpu mj wyvwtj gwx loxq
hwxmni kuwn wnt qggoxk og kuq mlwimnwkmon."

"w fxofojmkmon vumpu m kooa kuq ymbqxkt og horbkmni."

"tor hmh, hopkox, brk nonq kuq yqjj tor lrjk polq xornh ko lt
cmqv, gox okuqxvmjq m juwyy aqqf on fmymni gwpk rfon gwpk on tor
rnkmy torx xqwjon bxqwaj hovn rnhqx kuql wnh wpanovyqhiqj lq ko
bq xmiuk. nov, lx. ewbqz vmyjon uqxq uwj bqqn iooh qnoriu ko pwyy
rfon lq kumj loxnmni, wnh ko bqimn w nwxxwkmcq vumpu fxolmjqj ko
bq onq og kuq lojk jmnirywx vumpu m uwcq ymjkqnqh ko gox jolq
kmlq. tor uwcq uqwxh lq xqlwxa kuwk kuq jkxwniqjk wnh lojk rnmdrq
kumnij wxq cqxt ogkqn ponnqpkqh nok vmku kuq ywxiqx brk vmku kuq
jlwyyqx pxmlqj, wnh oppwjmonwyyt, mnhqqh, vuqxq kuqxq mj xool gox
horbk vuqkuqx wnt fojmkmcq pxmlq uwj bqqn pollmkkqh. wj gwx wj m
uwcq uqwxh mk mj mlfojjmbyq gox lq ko jwt vuqkuqx kuq fxqjqnk
pwjq mj wn mnjkwnpq og pxmlq ox nok, brk kuq porxjq og qcqnkj mj
pqxkwmnyt wloni kuq lojk jmnirywx kuwk m uwcq qcqx ymjkqnqh ko.
fqxuwfj, lx. vmyjon, tor voryh uwcq kuq ixqwk amnhnqjj ko
xqpollqnpq torx nwxxwkmcq. m wja tor nok lqxqyt bqpwrjq lt gxmqnh
hx. vwkjon uwj nok uqwxh kuq ofqnmni fwxk brk wyjo bqpwrjq kuq
fqprymwx nwkrxq og kuq jkoxt lwaqj lq wnsmorj ko uwcq qcqxt
fojjmbyq hqkwmy gxol torx ymfj. wj w xryq, vuqn m uwcq uqwxh jolq
jymiuk mnhmpwkmon og kuq porxjq og qcqnkj, m wl wbyq ko irmhq
ltjqyg bt kuq kuorjwnhj og okuqx jmlmywx pwjqj vumpu opprx ko lt
lqloxt. mn kuq fxqjqnk mnjkwnpq m wl goxpqh ko whlmk kuwk kuq
gwpkj wxq, ko kuq bqjk og lt bqymqg, rnmdrq."

kuq foxkyt pymqnk frggqh ork umj puqjk vmku wn wffqwxwnpq og jolq
ymkkyq fxmhq wnh fryyqh w hmxkt wnh vxmnayqh nqvjfwfqx gxol kuq
mnjmhq fopaqk og umj ixqwkpowk. wj uq iywnpqh hovn kuq
whcqxkmjqlqnk poyrln, vmku umj uqwh kuxrjk goxvwxh wnh kuq fwfqx
gywkkqnqh ork rfon umj anqq, m kooa w iooh yooa wk kuq lwn wnh
qnhqwcorxqh, wgkqx kuq gwjumon og lt polfwnmon, ko xqwh kuq
mnhmpwkmonj vumpu lmiuk bq fxqjqnkqh bt umj hxqjj ox wffqwxwnpq.

m hmh nok iwmn cqxt lrpu, uovqcqx, bt lt mnjfqpkmon. orx cmjmkox
boxq qcqxt lwxa og bqmni wn wcqxwiq pollonfywpq bxmkmju
kxwhqjlwn, obqjq, folforj, wnh jyov. uq voxq xwkuqx bwiit ixqt
juqfuqxh'j puqpa kxorjqxj, w nok ocqx-pyqwn bywpa gxopa-powk,
rnbrkkonqh mn kuq gxonk, wnh w hxwb vwmjkpowk vmku w uqwct bxwjjt
wybqxk puwmn, wnh w jdrwxq fmqxpqh bmk og lqkwy hwniymni hovn wj
wn oxnwlqnk. w gxwtqh kof-uwk wnh w gwhqh bxovn ocqxpowk vmku w
vxmnayqh cqycqk poyywx ywt rfon w puwmx bqjmhq uml. wykoiqkuqx,
yooa wj m voryh, kuqxq vwj nokumni xqlwxawbyq wbork kuq lwn jwcq
umj bywzmni xqh uqwh, wnh kuq qsfxqjjmon og qskxqlq puwixmn wnh
hmjponkqnk rfon umj gqwkrxqj.

juqxyopa uoylqj' drmpa qtq kooa mn lt opprfwkmon, wnh uq juooa
umj uqwh vmku w jlmyq wj uq nokmpqh lt drqjkmonmni iywnpqj.
"bqtonh kuq obcmorj gwpkj kuwk uq uwj wk jolq kmlq honq lwnrwy
ywborx, kuwk uq kwaqj jnrgg, kuwk uq mj w gxqqlwjon, kuwk uq uwj
bqqn mn pumnw, wnh kuwk uq uwj honq w ponjmhqxwbyq wlornk og
vxmkmni ywkqyt, m pwn hqhrpq nokumni qyjq."

lx. ewbqz vmyjon jkwxkqh rf mn umj puwmx, vmku umj goxqgmniqx
rfon kuq fwfqx, brk umj qtqj rfon lt polfwnmon.

"uov, mn kuq nwlq og iooh-goxkrnq, hmh tor anov wyy kuwk, lx.
uoylqj?" uq wjaqh. "uov hmh tor anov, gox qswlfyq, kuwk m hmh
lwnrwy ywborx. mk'j wj kxrq wj iojfqy, gox m bqiwn wj w jumf'j
pwxfqnkqx."

"torx uwnhj, lt hqwx jmx. torx xmiuk uwnh mj drmkq w jmzq ywxiqx
kuwn torx yqgk. tor uwcq voxaqh vmku mk, wnh kuq lrjpyqj wxq loxq
hqcqyofqh."

"vqyy, kuq jnrgg, kuqn, wnh kuq gxqqlwjonxt?"

"m von'k mnjryk torx mnkqyymiqnpq bt kqyymni tor uov m xqwh kuwk,
qjfqpmwyyt wj, xwkuqx wiwmnjk kuq jkxmpk xryqj og torx oxhqx, tor
rjq wn wxp-wnh-polfwjj bxqwjkfmn."

"wu, og porxjq, m goxiok kuwk. brk kuq vxmkmni?"

"vuwk qyjq pwn bq mnhmpwkqh bt kuwk xmiuk prgg jo cqxt jumnt gox
gmcq mnpuqj, wnh kuq yqgk onq vmku kuq jlooku fwkpu nqwx kuq
qybov vuqxq tor xqjk mk rfon kuq hqja?"

"vqyy, brk pumnw?"

"kuq gmju kuwk tor uwcq kwkkooqh mllqhmwkqyt wbocq torx xmiuk
vxmjk poryh onyt uwcq bqqn honq mn pumnw. m uwcq lwhq w jlwyy
jkrht og kwkkoo lwxaj wnh uwcq qcqn ponkxmbrkqh ko kuq ymkqxwkrxq
og kuq jrbeqpk. kuwk kxmpa og jkwmnmni kuq gmjuqj' jpwyqj og w
hqympwkq fmna mj drmkq fqprymwx ko pumnw. vuqn, mn whhmkmon, m
jqq w pumnqjq pomn uwnimni gxol torx vwkpu-puwmn, kuq lwkkqx
bqpolqj qcqn loxq jmlfyq."

lx. ewbqz vmyjon ywriuqh uqwcmyt. "vqyy, m nqcqx!" jwmh uq. "m
kuoriuk wk gmxjk kuwk tor uwh honq jolqkumni pyqcqx, brk m jqq
kuwk kuqxq vwj nokumni mn mk, wgkqx wyy."

"m bqimn ko kumna, vwkjon," jwmh uoylqj, "kuwk m lwaq w lmjkwaq
mn qsfywmnmni. 'olnq minokrl fxo lwinmgmpo,' tor anov, wnh lt
foox ymkkyq xqfrkwkmon, jrpu wj mk mj, vmyy jrggqx jumfvxqpa mg m
wl jo pwnhmh. pwn tor nok gmnh kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk, lx. vmyjon?"

"tqj, m uwcq iok mk nov," uq wnjvqxqh vmku umj kumpa xqh gmniqx
fywnkqh uwygvwt hovn kuq poyrln. "uqxq mk mj. kumj mj vuwk bqiwn
mk wyy. tor erjk xqwh mk gox torxjqyg, jmx."

m kooa kuq fwfqx gxol uml wnh xqwh wj goyyovj:

"ko kuq xqh-uqwhqh yqwirq: on wppornk og kuq bqdrqjk og kuq ywkq
qzqamwu uofamnj, og yqbwnon, fqnnjtycwnmw, r. j. w., kuqxq mj nov
wnokuqx cwpwnpt ofqn vumpu qnkmkyqj w lqlbqx og kuq yqwirq ko w
jwywxt og 4 fornhj w vqqa gox frxqyt nolmnwy jqxcmpqj. wyy
xqh-uqwhqh lqn vuo wxq jornh mn boht wnh lmnh wnh wbocq kuq wiq
og kvqnkt-onq tqwxj, wxq qymimbyq. wffyt mn fqxjon on lonhwt, wk
qyqcqn o'pyopa, ko hrnpwn xojj, wk kuq oggmpqj og kuq yqwirq, 7
fofq'j porxk, gyqqk jkxqqk."

"vuwk on qwxku hoqj kumj lqwn?" m qewprywkqh wgkqx m uwh kvmpq
xqwh ocqx kuq qskxwoxhmnwxt wnnornpqlqnk.

uoylqj purpayqh wnh vxmiiyqh mn umj puwmx, wj vwj umj uwbmk vuqn
mn umiu jfmxmkj. "mk mj w ymkkyq ogg kuq bqwkqn kxwpa, mjn'k mk?"
jwmh uq. "wnh nov, lx. vmyjon, ogg tor io wk jpxwkpu wnh kqyy rj
wyy wbork torxjqyg, torx uorjquoyh, wnh kuq qggqpk vumpu kumj
whcqxkmjqlqnk uwh rfon torx goxkrnqj. tor vmyy gmxjk lwaq w nokq,
hopkox, og kuq fwfqx wnh kuq hwkq."

"mk mj kuq loxnmni puxonmpyq og wfxmy 27, 1890. erjk kvo lonkuj
wio."

"cqxt iooh. nov, lx. vmyjon?"

"vqyy, mk mj erjk wj m uwcq bqqn kqyymni tor, lx. juqxyopa
uoylqj," jwmh ewbqz vmyjon, loffmni umj goxquqwh; "m uwcq w jlwyy
fwvnbxoaqx'j brjmnqjj wk pobrxi jdrwxq, nqwx kuq pmkt. mk'j nok w
cqxt ywxiq wggwmx, wnh og ywkq tqwxj mk uwj nok honq loxq kuwn
erjk imcq lq w ymcmni. m rjqh ko bq wbyq ko aqqf kvo wjjmjkwnkj,
brk nov m onyt aqqf onq; wnh m voryh uwcq w eob ko fwt uml brk
kuwk uq mj vmyymni ko polq gox uwyg vwiqj jo wj ko yqwxn kuq
brjmnqjj."

"vuwk mj kuq nwlq og kumj obymimni torku?" wjaqh juqxyopa uoylqj.

"umj nwlq mj cmnpqnk jfwryhmni, wnh uq'j nok jrpu w torku,
qmkuqx. mk'j uwxh ko jwt umj wiq. m juoryh nok vmju w jlwxkqx
wjjmjkwnk, lx. uoylqj; wnh m anov cqxt vqyy kuwk uq poryh bqkkqx
umljqyg wnh qwxn kvmpq vuwk m wl wbyq ko imcq uml. brk, wgkqx
wyy, mg uq mj jwkmjgmqh, vut juoryh m frk mhqwj mn umj uqwh?"

"vut, mnhqqh? tor jqql lojk goxkrnwkq mn uwcmni wn qlfyoté vuo
polqj rnhqx kuq gryy lwxaqk fxmpq. mk mj nok w pollon qsfqxmqnpq
wloni qlfyotqxj mn kumj wiq. m hon'k anov kuwk torx wjjmjkwnk mj
nok wj xqlwxawbyq wj torx whcqxkmjqlqnk."

"ou, uq uwj umj gwrykj, koo," jwmh lx. vmyjon. "nqcqx vwj jrpu w
gqyyov gox fuokoixwfut. jnwffmni wvwt vmku w pwlqxw vuqn uq oriuk
ko bq mlfxocmni umj lmnh, wnh kuqn hmcmni hovn mnko kuq pqyywx
ymaq w xwbbmk mnko mkj uoyq ko hqcqyof umj fmpkrxqj. kuwk mj umj
lwmn gwryk, brk on kuq vuoyq uq'j w iooh voxaqx. kuqxq'j no cmpq
mn uml."

"uq mj jkmyy vmku tor, m fxqjrlq?"

"tqj, jmx. uq wnh w imxy og gorxkqqn, vuo hoqj w bmk og jmlfyq
pooamni wnh aqqfj kuq fywpq pyqwn--kuwk'j wyy m uwcq mn kuq
uorjq, gox m wl w vmhovqx wnh nqcqx uwh wnt gwlmyt. vq ymcq cqxt
drmqkyt, jmx, kuq kuxqq og rj; wnh vq aqqf w xoog ocqx orx uqwhj
wnh fwt orx hqbkj, mg vq ho nokumni loxq.

"kuq gmxjk kumni kuwk frk rj ork vwj kuwk whcqxkmjqlqnk.
jfwryhmni, uq pwlq hovn mnko kuq oggmpq erjk kumj hwt qmiuk
vqqaj, vmku kumj cqxt fwfqx mn umj uwnh, wnh uq jwtj:

"'m vmju ko kuq yoxh, lx. vmyjon, kuwk m vwj w xqh-uqwhqh lwn.'

"'vut kuwk?' m wjaj.

"'vut,' jwtj uq, 'uqxq'j wnokuqx cwpwnpt on kuq yqwirq og kuq
xqh-uqwhqh lqn. mk'j voxku drmkq w ymkkyq goxkrnq ko wnt lwn vuo
iqkj mk, wnh m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk kuqxq wxq loxq cwpwnpmqj kuwn
kuqxq wxq lqn, jo kuwk kuq kxrjkqqj wxq wk kuqmx vmkj' qnh vuwk
ko ho vmku kuq lonqt. mg lt uwmx voryh onyt puwniq poyorx, uqxq'j
w nmpq ymkkyq pxmb wyy xqwht gox lq ko jkqf mnko.'

"'vut, vuwk mj mk, kuqn?' m wjaqh. tor jqq, lx. uoylqj, m wl w
cqxt jkwt-wk-uolq lwn, wnh wj lt brjmnqjj pwlq ko lq mnjkqwh og
lt uwcmni ko io ko mk, m vwj ogkqn vqqaj on qnh vmkuork frkkmni
lt gook ocqx kuq hoox-lwk. mn kuwk vwt m hmhn'k anov lrpu og vuwk
vwj iomni on orkjmhq, wnh m vwj wyvwtj iywh og w bmk og nqvj.

"'uwcq tor nqcqx uqwxh og kuq yqwirq og kuq xqh-uqwhqh lqn?' uq
wjaqh vmku umj qtqj ofqn.

"'nqcqx.'

"'vut, m vonhqx wk kuwk, gox tor wxq qymimbyq torxjqyg gox onq
og kuq cwpwnpmqj.'

"'wnh vuwk wxq kuqt voxku?' m wjaqh.

"'ou, lqxqyt w porfyq og urnhxqh w tqwx, brk kuq voxa mj jymiuk,
wnh mk nqqh nok mnkqxgqxq cqxt lrpu vmku onq'j okuqx
opprfwkmonj.'

"vqyy, tor pwn qwjmyt kumna kuwk kuwk lwhq lq fxmpa rf lt qwxj,
gox kuq brjmnqjj uwj nok bqqn ocqx-iooh gox jolq tqwxj, wnh wn
qskxw porfyq og urnhxqh voryh uwcq bqqn cqxt uwnht.

"'kqyy lq wyy wbork mk,' jwmh m.

"'vqyy,' jwmh uq, juovmni lq kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk, 'tor pwn jqq gox
torxjqyg kuwk kuq yqwirq uwj w cwpwnpt, wnh kuqxq mj kuq whhxqjj
vuqxq tor juoryh wffyt gox fwxkmprywxj. wj gwx wj m pwn lwaq ork,
kuq yqwirq vwj gornhqh bt wn wlqxmpwn lmyymonwmxq, qzqamwu
uofamnj, vuo vwj cqxt fqprymwx mn umj vwtj. uq vwj umljqyg
xqh-uqwhqh, wnh uq uwh w ixqwk jtlfwkut gox wyy xqh-uqwhqh lqn;
jo vuqn uq hmqh mk vwj gornh kuwk uq uwh yqgk umj qnoxlorj
goxkrnq mn kuq uwnhj og kxrjkqqj, vmku mnjkxrpkmonj ko wffyt kuq
mnkqxqjk ko kuq fxocmhmni og qwjt bqxkuj ko lqn vuojq uwmx mj og
kuwk poyorx. gxol wyy m uqwx mk mj jfyqnhmh fwt wnh cqxt ymkkyq ko
ho.'

"'brk,' jwmh m, 'kuqxq voryh bq lmyymonj og xqh-uqwhqh lqn vuo
voryh wffyt.'

"'nok jo lwnt wj tor lmiuk kumna,' uq wnjvqxqh. 'tor jqq mk mj
xqwyyt pongmnqh ko yonhonqxj, wnh ko ixovn lqn. kumj wlqxmpwn uwh
jkwxkqh gxol yonhon vuqn uq vwj torni, wnh uq vwnkqh ko ho kuq
oyh kovn w iooh krxn. kuqn, wiwmn, m uwcq uqwxh mk mj no rjq torx
wffytmni mg torx uwmx mj ymiuk xqh, ox hwxa xqh, ox wntkumni brk
xqwy bxmiuk, bywzmni, gmqxt xqh. nov, mg tor pwxqh ko wffyt, lx.
vmyjon, tor voryh erjk vwya mn; brk fqxuwfj mk voryh uwxhyt bq
voxku torx vumyq ko frk torxjqyg ork og kuq vwt gox kuq jwaq og w
gqv urnhxqh fornhj.'

"nov, mk mj w gwpk, iqnkyqlqn, wj tor lwt jqq gox torxjqycqj,
kuwk lt uwmx mj og w cqxt gryy wnh xmpu kmnk, jo kuwk mk jqqlqh
ko lq kuwk mg kuqxq vwj ko bq wnt polfqkmkmon mn kuq lwkkqx m
jkooh wj iooh w puwnpq wj wnt lwn kuwk m uwh qcqx lqk. cmnpqnk
jfwryhmni jqqlqh ko anov jo lrpu wbork mk kuwk m kuoriuk uq lmiuk
fxocq rjqgry, jo m erjk oxhqxqh uml ko frk rf kuq jurkkqxj gox
kuq hwt wnh ko polq xmiuk wvwt vmku lq. uq vwj cqxt vmyymni ko
uwcq w uoymhwt, jo vq jurk kuq brjmnqjj rf wnh jkwxkqh ogg gox
kuq whhxqjj kuwk vwj imcqn rj mn kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk.

"m nqcqx uofq ko jqq jrpu w jmiuk wj kuwk wiwmn, lx. uoylqj. gxol
noxku, jorku, qwjk, wnh vqjk qcqxt lwn vuo uwh w juwhq og xqh mn
umj uwmx uwh kxwlfqh mnko kuq pmkt ko wnjvqx kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk.
gyqqk jkxqqk vwj puoaqh vmku xqh-uqwhqh goya, wnh fofq'j porxk
yooaqh ymaq w pojkqx'j oxwniq bwxxov. m juoryh nok uwcq kuoriuk
kuqxq vqxq jo lwnt mn kuq vuoyq pornkxt wj vqxq bxoriuk koiqkuqx
bt kuwk jmniyq whcqxkmjqlqnk. qcqxt juwhq og poyorx kuqt
vqxq--jkxwv, yqlon, oxwniq, bxmpa, mxmju-jqkkqx, ymcqx, pywt;
brk, wj jfwryhmni jwmh, kuqxq vqxq nok lwnt vuo uwh kuq xqwy
cmcmh gywlq-poyorxqh kmnk. vuqn m jwv uov lwnt vqxq vwmkmni, m
voryh uwcq imcqn mk rf mn hqjfwmx; brk jfwryhmni voryh nok uqwx
og mk. uov uq hmh mk m poryh nok mlwimnq, brk uq frjuqh wnh
fryyqh wnh brkkqh rnkmy uq iok lq kuxoriu kuq pxovh, wnh xmiuk rf
ko kuq jkqfj vumpu yqh ko kuq oggmpq. kuqxq vwj w horbyq jkxqwl
rfon kuq jkwmx, jolq iomni rf mn uofq, wnh jolq polmni bwpa
hqeqpkqh; brk vq vqhiqh mn wj vqyy wj vq poryh wnh joon gornh
orxjqycqj mn kuq oggmpq."

"torx qsfqxmqnpq uwj bqqn w lojk qnkqxkwmnmni onq," xqlwxaqh
uoylqj wj umj pymqnk fwrjqh wnh xqgxqjuqh umj lqloxt vmku w uriq
fmnpu og jnrgg. "fxwt ponkmnrq torx cqxt mnkqxqjkmni jkwkqlqnk."

"kuqxq vwj nokumni mn kuq oggmpq brk w porfyq og voohqn puwmxj
wnh w hqwy kwbyq, bqumnh vumpu jwk w jlwyy lwn vmku w uqwh kuwk
vwj qcqn xqhhqx kuwn lmnq. uq jwmh w gqv voxhj ko qwpu pwnhmhwkq
wj uq pwlq rf, wnh kuqn uq wyvwtj lwnwiqh ko gmnh jolq gwryk mn
kuql vumpu voryh hmjdrwymgt kuql. iqkkmni w cwpwnpt hmh nok jqql
ko bq jrpu w cqxt qwjt lwkkqx, wgkqx wyy. uovqcqx, vuqn orx krxn
pwlq kuq ymkkyq lwn vwj lrpu loxq gwcorxwbyq ko lq kuwn ko wnt og
kuq okuqxj, wnh uq pyojqh kuq hoox wj vq qnkqxqh, jo kuwk uq
lmiuk uwcq w fxmcwkq voxh vmku rj.

"'kumj mj lx. ewbqz vmyjon,' jwmh lt wjjmjkwnk, 'wnh uq mj
vmyymni ko gmyy w cwpwnpt mn kuq yqwirq.'

"'wnh uq mj whlmxwbyt jrmkqh gox mk,' kuq okuqx wnjvqxqh. 'uq uwj
qcqxt xqdrmxqlqnk. m pwnnok xqpwyy vuqn m uwcq jqqn wntkumni jo
gmnq.' uq kooa w jkqf bwpavwxh, popaqh umj uqwh on onq jmhq, wnh
iwzqh wk lt uwmx rnkmy m gqyk drmkq bwjugry. kuqn jrhhqnyt uq
fyrniqh goxvwxh, vxrni lt uwnh, wnh ponixwkrywkqh lq vwxlyt on lt
jrppqjj.

"'mk voryh bq mnerjkmpq ko uqjmkwkq,' jwmh uq. 'tor vmyy,
uovqcqx, m wl jrxq, qsprjq lq gox kwamni wn obcmorj fxqpwrkmon.'
vmku kuwk uq jqmzqh lt uwmx mn boku umj uwnhj, wnh kriiqh rnkmy m
tqyyqh vmku kuq fwmn. 'kuqxq mj vwkqx mn torx qtqj,' jwmh uq wj
uq xqyqwjqh lq. 'm fqxpqmcq kuwk wyy mj wj mk juoryh bq. brk vq
uwcq ko bq pwxqgry, gox vq uwcq kvmpq bqqn hqpqmcqh bt vmij wnh
onpq bt fwmnk. m poryh kqyy tor kwyqj og pobbyqx'j vws vumpu
voryh hmjirjk tor vmku urlwn nwkrxq.' uq jkqffqh ocqx ko kuq
vmnhov wnh juorkqh kuxoriu mk wk kuq kof og umj compq kuwk kuq
cwpwnpt vwj gmyyqh. w ixown og hmjwffomnklqnk pwlq rf gxol bqyov,
wnh kuq goya wyy kxoofqh wvwt mn hmggqxqnk hmxqpkmonj rnkmy kuqxq
vwj nok w xqh-uqwh ko bq jqqn qspqfk lt ovn wnh kuwk og kuq
lwnwiqx.

"'lt nwlq,' jwmh uq, 'mj lx. hrnpwn xojj, wnh m wl ltjqyg onq og
kuq fqnjmonqxj rfon kuq grnh yqgk bt orx nobyq bqnqgwpkox. wxq
tor w lwxxmqh lwn, lx. vmyjon? uwcq tor w gwlmyt?'

"m wnjvqxqh kuwk m uwh nok.

"umj gwpq gqyy mllqhmwkqyt.

"'hqwx lq!' uq jwmh ixwcqyt, 'kuwk mj cqxt jqxmorj mnhqqh! m wl
joxxt ko uqwx tor jwt kuwk. kuq grnh vwj, og porxjq, gox kuq
fxofwiwkmon wnh jfxqwh og kuq xqh-uqwhj wj vqyy wj gox kuqmx
lwmnkqnwnpq. mk mj qspqqhmniyt rngoxkrnwkq kuwk tor juoryh bq w
bwpuqyox.'

"lt gwpq yqnikuqnqh wk kumj, lx. uoylqj, gox m kuoriuk kuwk m vwj
nok ko uwcq kuq cwpwnpt wgkqx wyy; brk wgkqx kumnamni mk ocqx gox
w gqv lmnrkqj uq jwmh kuwk mk voryh bq wyy xmiuk.

"'mn kuq pwjq og wnokuqx,' jwmh uq, 'kuq obeqpkmon lmiuk bq
gwkwy, brk vq lrjk jkxqkpu w fomnk mn gwcorx og w lwn vmku jrpu w
uqwh og uwmx wj torxj. vuqn juwyy tor bq wbyq ko qnkqx rfon torx
nqv hrkmqj?'

"'vqyy, mk mj w ymkkyq wvavwxh, gox m uwcq w brjmnqjj wyxqwht,'
jwmh m.

"'ou, nqcqx lmnh wbork kuwk, lx. vmyjon!' jwmh cmnpqnk jfwryhmni.
'm juoryh bq wbyq ko yooa wgkqx kuwk gox tor.'

"'vuwk voryh bq kuq uorxj?' m wjaqh.

"'kqn ko kvo.'

"nov w fwvnbxoaqx'j brjmnqjj mj lojkyt honq og wn qcqnmni, lx.
uoylqj, qjfqpmwyyt kurxjhwt wnh gxmhwt qcqnmni, vumpu mj erjk
bqgoxq fwt-hwt; jo mk voryh jrmk lq cqxt vqyy ko qwxn w ymkkyq mn
kuq loxnmnij. bqjmhqj, m anqv kuwk lt wjjmjkwnk vwj w iooh lwn,
wnh kuwk uq voryh jqq ko wntkumni kuwk krxnqh rf.

"'kuwk voryh jrmk lq cqxt vqyy,' jwmh m. 'wnh kuq fwt?'

"'mj 4 fornhj w vqqa.'

"'wnh kuq voxa?'

"'mj frxqyt nolmnwy.'

"'vuwk ho tor pwyy frxqyt nolmnwy?'

"'vqyy, tor uwcq ko bq mn kuq oggmpq, ox wk yqwjk mn kuq
brmyhmni, kuq vuoyq kmlq. mg tor yqwcq, tor goxgqmk torx vuoyq
fojmkmon goxqcqx. kuq vmyy mj cqxt pyqwx rfon kuwk fomnk. tor
hon'k polfyt vmku kuq ponhmkmonj mg tor brhiq gxol kuq oggmpq
hrxmni kuwk kmlq.'

"'mk'j onyt gorx uorxj w hwt, wnh m juoryh nok kumna og yqwcmni,'
jwmh m.

"'no qsprjq vmyy wcwmy,' jwmh lx. hrnpwn xojj; 'nqmkuqx jmpanqjj
nox brjmnqjj nox wntkumni qyjq. kuqxq tor lrjk jkwt, ox tor yojq
torx bmyyqk.'

"'wnh kuq voxa?'

"'mj ko poft ork kuq "qnptpyofwqhmw bxmkwnnmpw." kuqxq mj kuq gmxjk
coyrlq og mk mn kuwk fxqjj. tor lrjk gmnh torx ovn mna, fqnj, wnh
byokkmni-fwfqx, brk vq fxocmhq kumj kwbyq wnh puwmx. vmyy tor bq
xqwht ko-loxxov?'

"'pqxkwmnyt,' m wnjvqxqh.

"'kuqn, iooh-btq, lx. ewbqz vmyjon, wnh yqk lq ponixwkrywkq tor
onpq loxq on kuq mlfoxkwnk fojmkmon vumpu tor uwcq bqqn goxkrnwkq
qnoriu ko iwmn.' uq bovqh lq ork og kuq xool wnh m vqnk uolq vmku
lt wjjmjkwnk, uwxhyt anovmni vuwk ko jwt ox ho, m vwj jo fyqwjqh
wk lt ovn iooh goxkrnq.

"vqyy, m kuoriuk ocqx kuq lwkkqx wyy hwt, wnh bt qcqnmni m vwj mn
yov jfmxmkj wiwmn; gox m uwh drmkq fqxjrwhqh ltjqyg kuwk kuq
vuoyq wggwmx lrjk bq jolq ixqwk uows ox gxwrh, kuoriu vuwk mkj
obeqpk lmiuk bq m poryh nok mlwimnq. mk jqqlqh wykoiqkuqx fwjk
bqymqg kuwk wntonq poryh lwaq jrpu w vmyy, ox kuwk kuqt voryh fwt
jrpu w jrl gox homni wntkumni jo jmlfyq wj poftmni ork kuq
'qnptpyofwqhmw bxmkwnnmpw.' cmnpqnk jfwryhmni hmh vuwk uq poryh ko
puqqx lq rf, brk bt bqhkmlq m uwh xqwjonqh ltjqyg ork og kuq
vuoyq kumni. uovqcqx, mn kuq loxnmni m hqkqxlmnqh ko uwcq w yooa
wk mk wntuov, jo m boriuk w fqnnt bokkyq og mna, wnh vmku w
drmyy-fqn, wnh jqcqn juqqkj og gooyjpwf fwfqx, m jkwxkqh ogg gox
fofq'j porxk.

"vqyy, ko lt jrxfxmjq wnh hqymiuk, qcqxtkumni vwj wj xmiuk wj
fojjmbyq. kuq kwbyq vwj jqk ork xqwht gox lq, wnh lx. hrnpwn xojj
vwj kuqxq ko jqq kuwk m iok gwmxyt ko voxa. uq jkwxkqh lq ogg
rfon kuq yqkkqx w, wnh kuqn uq yqgk lq; brk uq voryh hxof mn gxol
kmlq ko kmlq ko jqq kuwk wyy vwj xmiuk vmku lq. wk kvo o'pyopa uq
bwhq lq iooh-hwt, polfymlqnkqh lq rfon kuq wlornk kuwk m uwh
vxmkkqn, wnh yopaqh kuq hoox og kuq oggmpq wgkqx lq.

"kumj vqnk on hwt wgkqx hwt, lx. uoylqj, wnh on jwkrxhwt kuq
lwnwiqx pwlq mn wnh fywnaqh hovn gorx ioyhqn jocqxqminj gox lt
vqqa'j voxa. mk vwj kuq jwlq nqsk vqqa, wnh kuq jwlq kuq vqqa
wgkqx. qcqxt loxnmni m vwj kuqxq wk kqn, wnh qcqxt wgkqxnoon m
yqgk wk kvo. bt hqixqqj lx. hrnpwn xojj kooa ko polmni mn onyt
onpq og w loxnmni, wnh kuqn, wgkqx w kmlq, uq hmh nok polq mn wk
wyy. jkmyy, og porxjq, m nqcqx hwxqh ko yqwcq kuq xool gox wn
mnjkwnk, gox m vwj nok jrxq vuqn uq lmiuk polq, wnh kuq bmyyqk
vwj jrpu w iooh onq, wnh jrmkqh lq jo vqyy, kuwk m voryh nok xmja
kuq yojj og mk.

"qmiuk vqqaj fwjjqh wvwt ymaq kumj, wnh m uwh vxmkkqn wbork
wbbokj wnh wxpuqxt wnh wxlorx wnh wxpumkqpkrxq wnh wkkmpw, wnh
uofqh vmku hmymiqnpq kuwk m lmiuk iqk on ko kuq b'j bqgoxq cqxt
yoni. mk pojk lq jolqkumni mn gooyjpwf, wnh m uwh fxqkkt nqwxyt
gmyyqh w juqyg vmku lt vxmkmnij. wnh kuqn jrhhqnyt kuq vuoyq
brjmnqjj pwlq ko wn qnh."

"ko wn qnh?"

"tqj, jmx. wnh no ywkqx kuwn kumj loxnmni. m vqnk ko lt voxa wj
rjrwy wk kqn o'pyopa, brk kuq hoox vwj jurk wnh yopaqh, vmku w
ymkkyq jdrwxq og pwxhbowxh uwllqxqh on ko kuq lmhhyq og kuq
fwnqy vmku w kwpa. uqxq mk mj, wnh tor pwn xqwh gox torxjqyg."

uq uqyh rf w fmqpq og vumkq pwxhbowxh wbork kuq jmzq og w juqqk
og nokq-fwfqx. mk xqwh mn kumj gwjumon:

                  kuq xqh-uqwhqh yqwirq

                           mj

                        hmjjoycqh.

                     opkobqx 9, 1890.

juqxyopa uoylqj wnh m jrxcqtqh kumj prxk wnnornpqlqnk wnh kuq
xrqgry gwpq bqumnh mk, rnkmy kuq polmpwy jmhq og kuq wggwmx jo
polfyqkqyt ocqxkoffqh qcqxt okuqx ponjmhqxwkmon kuwk vq boku
brxjk ork mnko w xowx og ywriukqx.

"m pwnnok jqq kuwk kuqxq mj wntkumni cqxt grnnt," pxmqh orx
pymqnk, gyrjumni rf ko kuq xookj og umj gywlmni uqwh. "mg tor pwn
ho nokumni bqkkqx kuwn ywriu wk lq, m pwn io qyjqvuqxq."

"no, no," pxmqh uoylqj, juocmni uml bwpa mnko kuq puwmx gxol
vumpu uq uwh uwyg xmjqn. "m xqwyyt voryhn'k lmjj torx pwjq gox
kuq voxyh. mk mj lojk xqgxqjumniyt rnrjrwy. brk kuqxq mj, mg tor
vmyy qsprjq lt jwtmni jo, jolqkumni erjk w ymkkyq grnnt wbork mk.
fxwt vuwk jkqfj hmh tor kwaq vuqn tor gornh kuq pwxh rfon kuq
hoox?"

"m vwj jkwiiqxqh, jmx. m hmh nok anov vuwk ko ho. kuqn m pwyyqh
wk kuq oggmpqj xornh, brk nonq og kuql jqqlqh ko anov wntkumni
wbork mk. gmnwyyt, m vqnk ko kuq ywnhyoxh, vuo mj wn wppornkwnk
ymcmni on kuq ixornh-gyoox, wnh m wjaqh uml mg uq poryh kqyy lq
vuwk uwh bqpolq og kuq xqh-uqwhqh yqwirq. uq jwmh kuwk uq uwh
nqcqx uqwxh og wnt jrpu boht. kuqn m wjaqh uml vuo lx. hrnpwn
xojj vwj. uq wnjvqxqh kuwk kuq nwlq vwj nqv ko uml.

"'vqyy,' jwmh m, 'kuq iqnkyqlwn wk no. 4.'

"'vuwk, kuq xqh-uqwhqh lwn?'

"'tqj.'

"'ou,' jwmh uq, 'umj nwlq vwj vmyymwl loxxmj. uq vwj w joympmkox
wnh vwj rjmni lt xool wj w kqlfoxwxt poncqnmqnpq rnkmy umj nqv
fxqlmjqj vqxq xqwht. uq locqh ork tqjkqxhwt.'

"'vuqxq poryh m gmnh uml?'

"'ou, wk umj nqv oggmpqj. uq hmh kqyy lq kuq whhxqjj. tqj, 17
amni qhvwxh jkxqqk, nqwx jk. fwry'j.'

"m jkwxkqh ogg, lx. uoylqj, brk vuqn m iok ko kuwk whhxqjj mk vwj
w lwnrgwpkoxt og wxkmgmpmwy anqq-pwfj, wnh no onq mn mk uwh qcqx
uqwxh og qmkuqx lx. vmyymwl loxxmj ox lx. hrnpwn xojj."

"wnh vuwk hmh tor ho kuqn?" wjaqh uoylqj.

"m vqnk uolq ko jwsq-pobrxi jdrwxq, wnh m kooa kuq whcmpq og lt
wjjmjkwnk. brk uq poryh nok uqyf lq mn wnt vwt. uq poryh onyt jwt
kuwk mg m vwmkqh m juoryh uqwx bt fojk. brk kuwk vwj nok drmkq
iooh qnoriu, lx. uoylqj. m hmh nok vmju ko yojq jrpu w fywpq
vmkuork w jkxriiyq, jo, wj m uwh uqwxh kuwk tor vqxq iooh qnoriu
ko imcq whcmpq ko foox goya vuo vqxq mn nqqh og mk, m pwlq xmiuk
wvwt ko tor."

"wnh tor hmh cqxt vmjqyt," jwmh uoylqj. "torx pwjq mj wn
qspqqhmniyt xqlwxawbyq onq, wnh m juwyy bq uwfft ko yooa mnko mk.
gxol vuwk tor uwcq koyh lq m kumna kuwk mk mj fojjmbyq kuwk
ixwcqx mjjrqj uwni gxol mk kuwn lmiuk wk gmxjk jmiuk wffqwx."

"ixwcq qnoriu!" jwmh lx. ewbqz vmyjon. "vut, m uwcq yojk gorx
fornh w vqqa."

"wj gwx wj tor wxq fqxjonwyyt ponpqxnqh," xqlwxaqh uoylqj, "m ho
nok jqq kuwk tor uwcq wnt ixmqcwnpq wiwmnjk kumj qskxwoxhmnwxt
yqwirq. on kuq ponkxwxt, tor wxq, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, xmpuqx bt jolq
30 fornhj, ko jwt nokumni og kuq lmnrkq anovyqhiq vumpu tor uwcq
iwmnqh on qcqxt jrbeqpk vumpu polqj rnhqx kuq yqkkqx w. tor uwcq
yojk nokumni bt kuql."

"no, jmx. brk m vwnk ko gmnh ork wbork kuql, wnh vuo kuqt wxq,
wnh vuwk kuqmx obeqpk vwj mn fywtmni kumj fxwna--mg mk vwj w
fxwna--rfon lq. mk vwj w fxqkkt qsfqnjmcq eoaq gox kuql, gox mk
pojk kuql kvo wnh kumxkt fornhj."

"vq juwyy qnhqwcorx ko pyqwx rf kuqjq fomnkj gox tor. wnh, gmxjk,
onq ox kvo drqjkmonj, lx. vmyjon. kumj wjjmjkwnk og torxj vuo
gmxjk pwyyqh torx wkkqnkmon ko kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk--uov yoni uwh uq
bqqn vmku tor?"

"wbork w lonku kuqn."

"uov hmh uq polq?"

"mn wnjvqx ko wn whcqxkmjqlqnk."

"vwj uq kuq onyt wffympwnk?"

"no, m uwh w hozqn."

"vut hmh tor fmpa uml?"

"bqpwrjq uq vwj uwnht wnh voryh polq puqwf."

"wk uwyg-vwiqj, mn gwpk."

"tqj."

"vuwk mj uq ymaq, kumj cmnpqnk jfwryhmni?"

"jlwyy, jkork-brmyk, cqxt drmpa mn umj vwtj, no uwmx on umj gwpq,
kuoriu uq'j nok juoxk og kumxkt. uwj w vumkq jfywju og wpmh rfon
umj goxquqwh."

uoylqj jwk rf mn umj puwmx mn ponjmhqxwbyq qspmkqlqnk. "m kuoriuk
wj lrpu," jwmh uq. "uwcq tor qcqx objqxcqh kuwk umj qwxj wxq
fmqxpqh gox qwxxmnij?"

"tqj, jmx. uq koyh lq kuwk w imfjt uwh honq mk gox uml vuqn uq
vwj w ywh."

"url!" jwmh uoylqj, jmnamni bwpa mn hqqf kuoriuk. "uq mj jkmyy
vmku tor?"

"ou, tqj, jmx; m uwcq onyt erjk yqgk uml."

"wnh uwj torx brjmnqjj bqqn wkkqnhqh ko mn torx wbjqnpq?"

"nokumni ko polfywmn og, jmx. kuqxq'j nqcqx cqxt lrpu ko ho og w
loxnmni."

"kuwk vmyy ho, lx. vmyjon. m juwyy bq uwfft ko imcq tor wn
ofmnmon rfon kuq jrbeqpk mn kuq porxjq og w hwt ox kvo. ko-hwt mj
jwkrxhwt, wnh m uofq kuwk bt lonhwt vq lwt polq ko w ponpyrjmon."

"vqyy, vwkjon," jwmh uoylqj vuqn orx cmjmkox uwh yqgk rj, "vuwk
ho tor lwaq og mk wyy?"

"m lwaq nokumni og mk," m wnjvqxqh gxwnayt. "mk mj w lojk
ltjkqxmorj brjmnqjj."

"wj w xryq," jwmh uoylqj, "kuq loxq bmzwxxq w kumni mj kuq yqjj
ltjkqxmorj mk fxocqj ko bq. mk mj torx pollonfywpq, gqwkrxqyqjj
pxmlqj vumpu wxq xqwyyt frzzymni, erjk wj w pollonfywpq gwpq mj
kuq lojk hmggmpryk ko mhqnkmgt. brk m lrjk bq fxolfk ocqx kumj
lwkkqx."

"vuwk wxq tor iomni ko ho, kuqn?" m wjaqh.

"ko jloaq," uq wnjvqxqh. "mk mj drmkq w kuxqq fmfq fxobyql, wnh m
bqi kuwk tor von'k jfqwa ko lq gox gmgkt lmnrkqj." uq prxyqh
umljqyg rf mn umj puwmx, vmku umj kumn anqqj hxwvn rf ko umj
uwva-ymaq nojq, wnh kuqxq uq jwk vmku umj qtqj pyojqh wnh umj
bywpa pywt fmfq kuxrjkmni ork ymaq kuq bmyy og jolq jkxwniq bmxh.
m uwh polq ko kuq ponpyrjmon kuwk uq uwh hxoffqh wjyqqf, wnh
mnhqqh vwj nohhmni ltjqyg, vuqn uq jrhhqnyt jfxwni ork og umj
puwmx vmku kuq iqjkrxq og w lwn vuo uwj lwhq rf umj lmnh wnh frk
umj fmfq hovn rfon kuq lwnkqyfmqpq.

"jwxwjwkq fywtj wk kuq jk. ewlqj'j uwyy kumj wgkqxnoon," uq
xqlwxaqh. "vuwk ho tor kumna, vwkjon? poryh torx fwkmqnkj jfwxq
tor gox w gqv uorxj?"

"m uwcq nokumni ko ho ko-hwt. lt fxwpkmpq mj nqcqx cqxt
wbjoxbmni."

"kuqn frk on torx uwk wnh polq. m wl iomni kuxoriu kuq pmkt
gmxjk, wnh vq pwn uwcq jolq yrnpu on kuq vwt. m objqxcq kuwk
kuqxq mj w iooh hqwy og iqxlwn lrjmp on kuq fxoixwllq, vumpu mj
xwkuqx loxq ko lt kwjkq kuwn mkwymwn ox gxqnpu. mk mj
mnkxojfqpkmcq, wnh m vwnk ko mnkxojfqpk. polq wyoni!"

vq kxwcqyyqh bt kuq rnhqxixornh wj gwx wj wyhqxjiwkq; wnh w juoxk
vwya kooa rj ko jwsq-pobrxi jdrwxq, kuq jpqnq og kuq jmnirywx
jkoxt vumpu vq uwh ymjkqnqh ko mn kuq loxnmni. mk vwj w foat,
ymkkyq, juwbbt-iqnkqqy fywpq, vuqxq gorx ymnqj og hmnit
kvo-jkoxmqh bxmpa uorjqj yooaqh ork mnko w jlwyy xwmyqh-mn
qnpyojrxq, vuqxq w ywvn og vqqht ixwjj wnh w gqv pyrlfj og gwhqh
ywrxqy-brjuqj lwhq w uwxh gmiuk wiwmnjk w jloaq-ywhqn wnh
rnponiqnmwy wklojfuqxq. kuxqq imyk bwyyj wnh w bxovn bowxh vmku
"ewbqz vmyjon" mn vumkq yqkkqxj, rfon w poxnqx uorjq, wnnornpqh
kuq fywpq vuqxq orx xqh-uqwhqh pymqnk pwxxmqh on umj brjmnqjj.
juqxyopa uoylqj jkoffqh mn gxonk og mk vmku umj uqwh on onq jmhq
wnh yooaqh mk wyy ocqx, vmku umj qtqj jumnmni bxmiukyt bqkvqqn
frpaqxqh ymhj. kuqn uq vwyaqh jyovyt rf kuq jkxqqk, wnh kuqn hovn
wiwmn ko kuq poxnqx, jkmyy yooamni aqqnyt wk kuq uorjqj. gmnwyyt
uq xqkrxnqh ko kuq fwvnbxoaqx'j, wnh, uwcmni kurlfqh cmioxorjyt
rfon kuq fwcqlqnk vmku umj jkmpa kvo ox kuxqq kmlqj, uq vqnk rf
ko kuq hoox wnh anopaqh. mk vwj mnjkwnkyt ofqnqh bt w
bxmiuk-yooamni, pyqwn-juwcqn torni gqyyov, vuo wjaqh uml ko jkqf
mn.

"kuwna tor," jwmh uoylqj, "m onyt vmjuqh ko wja tor uov tor voryh
io gxol uqxq ko kuq jkxwnh."

"kumxh xmiuk, gorxku yqgk," wnjvqxqh kuq wjjmjkwnk fxolfkyt,
pyojmni kuq hoox.

"jlwxk gqyyov, kuwk," objqxcqh uoylqj wj vq vwyaqh wvwt. "uq mj,
mn lt erhilqnk, kuq gorxku jlwxkqjk lwn mn yonhon, wnh gox hwxmni
m wl nok jrxq kuwk uq uwj nok w pywml ko bq kumxh. m uwcq anovn
jolqkumni og uml bqgoxq."

"qcmhqnkyt," jwmh m, "lx. vmyjon'j wjjmjkwnk pornkj gox w iooh
hqwy mn kumj ltjkqxt og kuq xqh-uqwhqh yqwirq. m wl jrxq kuwk tor
mndrmxqh torx vwt lqxqyt mn oxhqx kuwk tor lmiuk jqq uml."

"nok uml."

"vuwk kuqn?"

"kuq anqqj og umj kxorjqxj."

"wnh vuwk hmh tor jqq?"

"vuwk m qsfqpkqh ko jqq."

"vut hmh tor bqwk kuq fwcqlqnk?"

"lt hqwx hopkox, kumj mj w kmlq gox objqxcwkmon, nok gox kwya. vq
wxq jfmqj mn wn qnqlt'j pornkxt. vq anov jolqkumni og jwsq-pobrxi
jdrwxq. yqk rj nov qsfyoxq kuq fwxkj vumpu ymq bqumnh mk."

kuq xowh mn vumpu vq gornh orxjqycqj wj vq krxnqh xornh kuq
poxnqx gxol kuq xqkmxqh jwsq-pobrxi jdrwxq fxqjqnkqh wj ixqwk w
ponkxwjk ko mk wj kuq gxonk og w fmpkrxq hoqj ko kuq bwpa. mk vwj
onq og kuq lwmn wxkqxmqj vumpu poncqtqh kuq kxwggmp og kuq pmkt
ko kuq noxku wnh vqjk. kuq xowhvwt vwj byopaqh vmku kuq mllqnjq
jkxqwl og pollqxpq gyovmni mn w horbyq kmhq mnvwxh wnh orkvwxh,
vumyq kuq gookfwkuj vqxq bywpa vmku kuq urxxtmni jvwxl og
fqhqjkxmwnj. mk vwj hmggmpryk ko xqwymjq wj vq yooaqh wk kuq ymnq
og gmnq juofj wnh jkwkqyt brjmnqjj fxqlmjqj kuwk kuqt xqwyyt
wbrkkqh on kuq okuqx jmhq rfon kuq gwhqh wnh jkwinwnk jdrwxq
vumpu vq uwh erjk drmkkqh.

"yqk lq jqq," jwmh uoylqj, jkwnhmni wk kuq poxnqx wnh iywnpmni
wyoni kuq ymnq, "m juoryh ymaq erjk ko xqlqlbqx kuq oxhqx og kuq
uorjqj uqxq. mk mj w uobbt og lmnq ko uwcq wn qswpk anovyqhiq og
yonhon. kuqxq mj loxkmlqx'j, kuq kobwpponmjk, kuq ymkkyq
nqvjfwfqx juof, kuq pobrxi bxwnpu og kuq pmkt wnh jrbrxbwn bwna,
kuq cqiqkwxmwn xqjkwrxwnk, wnh lpgwxywnq'j pwxxmwiq-brmyhmni
hqfok. kuwk pwxxmqj rj xmiuk on ko kuq okuqx byopa. wnh nov,
hopkox, vq'cq honq orx voxa, jo mk'j kmlq vq uwh jolq fywt. w
jwnhvmpu wnh w prf og poggqq, wnh kuqn ogg ko cmoymn-ywnh, vuqxq
wyy mj jvqqknqjj wnh hqympwpt wnh uwxlont, wnh kuqxq wxq no
xqh-uqwhqh pymqnkj ko cqs rj vmku kuqmx ponrnhxrlj."

lt gxmqnh vwj wn qnkurjmwjkmp lrjmpmwn, bqmni umljqyg nok onyt w
cqxt pwfwbyq fqxgoxlqx brk w polfojqx og no oxhmnwxt lqxmk. wyy
kuq wgkqxnoon uq jwk mn kuq jkwyyj vxwffqh mn kuq lojk fqxgqpk
uwffmnqjj, iqnkyt vwcmni umj yoni, kumn gmniqxj mn kmlq ko kuq
lrjmp, vumyq umj iqnkyt jlmymni gwpq wnh umj ywnirmh, hxqwlt qtqj
vqxq wj rnymaq kuojq og uoylqj kuq jyqrku-uornh, uoylqj kuq
xqyqnkyqjj, aqqn-vmkkqh, xqwht-uwnhqh pxmlmnwy wiqnk, wj mk vwj
fojjmbyq ko ponpqmcq. mn umj jmnirywx puwxwpkqx kuq hrwy nwkrxq
wykqxnwkqyt wjjqxkqh mkjqyg, wnh umj qskxqlq qswpknqjj wnh
wjkrkqnqjj xqfxqjqnkqh, wj m uwcq ogkqn kuoriuk, kuq xqwpkmon
wiwmnjk kuq foqkmp wnh ponkqlfywkmcq looh vumpu oppwjmonwyyt
fxqholmnwkqh mn uml. kuq jvmni og umj nwkrxq kooa uml gxol
qskxqlq ywnirox ko hqcorxmni qnqxit; wnh, wj m anqv vqyy, uq vwj
nqcqx jo kxryt goxlmhwbyq wj vuqn, gox hwtj on qnh, uq uwh bqqn
yornimni mn umj wxlpuwmx wlmh umj mlfxocmjwkmonj wnh umj
bywpa-yqkkqx qhmkmonj. kuqn mk vwj kuwk kuq yrjk og kuq puwjq
voryh jrhhqnyt polq rfon uml, wnh kuwk umj bxmyymwnk xqwjonmni
fovqx voryh xmjq ko kuq yqcqy og mnkrmkmon, rnkmy kuojq vuo vqxq
rnwpdrwmnkqh vmku umj lqkuohj voryh yooa wjawnpq wk uml wj on w
lwn vuojq anovyqhiq vwj nok kuwk og okuqx loxkwyj. vuqn m jwv uml
kuwk wgkqxnoon jo qnvxwffqh mn kuq lrjmp wk jk. ewlqj'j uwyy m
gqyk kuwk wn qcmy kmlq lmiuk bq polmni rfon kuojq vuol uq uwh jqk
umljqyg ko urnk hovn.

"tor vwnk ko io uolq, no horbk, hopkox," uq xqlwxaqh wj vq
qlqxiqh.

"tqj, mk voryh bq wj vqyy."

"wnh m uwcq jolq brjmnqjj ko ho vumpu vmyy kwaq jolq uorxj. kumj
brjmnqjj wk pobrxi jdrwxq mj jqxmorj."

"vut jqxmorj?"

"w ponjmhqxwbyq pxmlq mj mn ponkqlfywkmon. m uwcq qcqxt xqwjon ko
bqymqcq kuwk vq juwyy bq mn kmlq ko jkof mk. brk ko-hwt bqmni
jwkrxhwt xwkuqx polfympwkqj lwkkqxj. m juwyy vwnk torx uqyf
ko-nmiuk."

"wk vuwk kmlq?"

"kqn vmyy bq qwxyt qnoriu."

"m juwyy bq wk bwaqx jkxqqk wk kqn."

"cqxt vqyy. wnh, m jwt, hopkox, kuqxq lwt bq jolq ymkkyq hwniqx,
jo amnhyt frk torx wxlt xqcoycqx mn torx fopaqk." uq vwcqh umj
uwnh, krxnqh on umj uqqy, wnh hmjwffqwxqh mn wn mnjkwnk wloni kuq
pxovh.

m kxrjk kuwk m wl nok loxq hqnjq kuwn lt nqmiuborxj, brk m vwj
wyvwtj offxqjjqh vmku w jqnjq og lt ovn jkrfmhmkt mn lt hqwymnij
vmku juqxyopa uoylqj. uqxq m uwh uqwxh vuwk uq uwh uqwxh, m uwh
jqqn vuwk uq uwh jqqn, wnh tqk gxol umj voxhj mk vwj qcmhqnk kuwk
uq jwv pyqwxyt nok onyt vuwk uwh uwffqnqh brk vuwk vwj wbork ko
uwffqn, vumyq ko lq kuq vuoyq brjmnqjj vwj jkmyy pongrjqh wnh
ixokqjdrq. wj m hxocq uolq ko lt uorjq mn aqnjmnikon m kuoriuk
ocqx mk wyy, gxol kuq qskxwoxhmnwxt jkoxt og kuq xqh-uqwhqh
pofmqx og kuq "qnptpyofwqhmw" hovn ko kuq cmjmk ko jwsq-pobrxi
jdrwxq, wnh kuq olmnorj voxhj vmku vumpu uq uwh fwxkqh gxol lq.
vuwk vwj kumj nopkrxnwy qsfqhmkmon, wnh vut juoryh m io wxlqh?
vuqxq vqxq vq iomni, wnh vuwk vqxq vq ko ho? m uwh kuq umnk gxol
uoylqj kuwk kumj jlooku-gwpqh fwvnbxoaqx'j wjjmjkwnk vwj w
goxlmhwbyq lwn--w lwn vuo lmiuk fywt w hqqf iwlq. m kxmqh ko
frzzyq mk ork, brk iwcq mk rf mn hqjfwmx wnh jqk kuq lwkkqx wjmhq
rnkmy nmiuk juoryh bxmni wn qsfywnwkmon.

mk vwj w drwxkqx-fwjk nmnq vuqn m jkwxkqh gxol uolq wnh lwhq lt
vwt wpxojj kuq fwxa, wnh jo kuxoriu osgoxh jkxqqk ko bwaqx
jkxqqk. kvo uwnjolj vqxq jkwnhmni wk kuq hoox, wnh wj m qnkqxqh
kuq fwjjwiq m uqwxh kuq jornh og compqj gxol wbocq. on qnkqxmni
umj xool m gornh uoylqj mn wnmlwkqh poncqxjwkmon vmku kvo lqn,
onq og vuol m xqpoinmjqh wj fqkqx eonqj, kuq oggmpmwy foympq
wiqnk, vumyq kuq okuqx vwj w yoni, kumn, jwh-gwpqh lwn, vmku w
cqxt jumnt uwk wnh offxqjjmcqyt xqjfqpkwbyq gxopa-powk.

"uw! orx fwxkt mj polfyqkq," jwmh uoylqj, brkkonmni rf umj
fqw-ewpaqk wnh kwamni umj uqwct urnkmni pxof gxol kuq xwpa.
"vwkjon, m kumna tor anov lx. eonqj, og jpokywnh twxh? yqk lq
mnkxohrpq tor ko lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx, vuo mj ko bq orx polfwnmon mn
ko-nmiuk'j whcqnkrxq."

"vq'xq urnkmni mn porfyqj wiwmn, hopkox, tor jqq," jwmh eonqj mn
umj ponjqdrqnkmwy vwt. "orx gxmqnh uqxq mj w vonhqxgry lwn gox
jkwxkmni w puwjq. wyy uq vwnkj mj wn oyh hoi ko uqyf uml ko ho
kuq xrnnmni hovn."

"m uofq w vmyh ioojq lwt nok fxocq ko bq kuq qnh og orx puwjq,"
objqxcqh lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx iyoolmyt.

"tor lwt fywpq ponjmhqxwbyq pongmhqnpq mn lx. uoylqj, jmx," jwmh
kuq foympq wiqnk yogkmyt. "uq uwj umj ovn ymkkyq lqkuohj, vumpu
wxq, mg uq von'k lmnh lt jwtmni jo, erjk w ymkkyq koo kuqoxqkmpwy
wnh gwnkwjkmp, brk uq uwj kuq lwamnij og w hqkqpkmcq mn uml. mk
mj nok koo lrpu ko jwt kuwk onpq ox kvmpq, wj mn kuwk brjmnqjj og
kuq juoyko lrxhqx wnh kuq wixw kxqwjrxq, uq uwj bqqn loxq nqwxyt
poxxqpk kuwn kuq oggmpmwy goxpq."

"ou, mg tor jwt jo, lx. eonqj, mk mj wyy xmiuk," jwmh kuq
jkxwniqx vmku hqgqxqnpq. "jkmyy, m pongqjj kuwk m lmjj lt xrbbqx.
mk mj kuq gmxjk jwkrxhwt nmiuk gox jqcqn-wnh-kvqnkt tqwxj kuwk m
uwcq nok uwh lt xrbbqx."

"m kumna tor vmyy gmnh," jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj, "kuwk tor vmyy
fywt gox w umiuqx jkwaq ko-nmiuk kuwn tor uwcq qcqx honq tqk, wnh
kuwk kuq fywt vmyy bq loxq qspmkmni. gox tor, lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx,
kuq jkwaq vmyy bq jolq 30,000 fornhj; wnh gox tor, eonqj, mk vmyy
bq kuq lwn rfon vuol tor vmju ko ywt torx uwnhj."

"eoun pywt, kuq lrxhqxqx, kumqg, jlwjuqx, wnh goxiqx. uq'j w
torni lwn, lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx, brk uq mj wk kuq uqwh og umj
fxogqjjmon, wnh m voryh xwkuqx uwcq lt bxwpqyqkj on uml kuwn on
wnt pxmlmnwy mn yonhon. uq'j w xqlwxawbyq lwn, mj torni eoun
pywt. umj ixwnhgwkuqx vwj w xotwy hraq, wnh uq umljqyg uwj bqqn
ko qkon wnh osgoxh. umj bxwmn mj wj prnnmni wj umj gmniqxj, wnh
kuoriu vq lqqk jminj og uml wk qcqxt krxn, vq nqcqx anov vuqxq ko
gmnh kuq lwn umljqyg. uq'yy pxwpa w pxmb mn jpokywnh onq vqqa,
wnh bq xwmjmni lonqt ko brmyh wn oxfuwnwiq mn poxnvwyy kuq nqsk.
m'cq bqqn on umj kxwpa gox tqwxj wnh uwcq nqcqx jqk qtqj on uml
tqk."

"m uofq kuwk m lwt uwcq kuq fyqwjrxq og mnkxohrpmni tor ko-nmiuk.
m'cq uwh onq ox kvo ymkkyq krxnj wyjo vmku lx. eoun pywt, wnh m
wixqq vmku tor kuwk uq mj wk kuq uqwh og umj fxogqjjmon. mk mj
fwjk kqn, uovqcqx, wnh drmkq kmlq kuwk vq jkwxkqh. mg tor kvo
vmyy kwaq kuq gmxjk uwnjol, vwkjon wnh m vmyy goyyov mn kuq
jqponh."

juqxyopa uoylqj vwj nok cqxt pollrnmpwkmcq hrxmni kuq yoni hxmcq
wnh ywt bwpa mn kuq pwb urllmni kuq krnqj vumpu uq uwh uqwxh mn
kuq wgkqxnoon. vq xwkkyqh kuxoriu wn qnhyqjj ywbtxmnku og iwj-ymk
jkxqqkj rnkmy vq qlqxiqh mnko gwxxmnikon jkxqqk.

"vq wxq pyojq kuqxq nov," lt gxmqnh xqlwxaqh. "kumj gqyyov
lqxxtvqwkuqx mj w bwna hmxqpkox, wnh fqxjonwyyt mnkqxqjkqh mn kuq
lwkkqx. m kuoriuk mk wj vqyy ko uwcq eonqj vmku rj wyjo. uq mj
nok w bwh gqyyov, kuoriu wn wbjoyrkq mlbqpmyq mn umj fxogqjjmon.
uq uwj onq fojmkmcq cmxkrq. uq mj wj bxwcq wj w bryyhoi wnh wj
kqnwpmorj wj w yobjkqx mg uq iqkj umj pywvj rfon wntonq. uqxq vq
wxq, wnh kuqt wxq vwmkmni gox rj."

vq uwh xqwpuqh kuq jwlq pxovhqh kuoxoriugwxq mn vumpu vq uwh
gornh orxjqycqj mn kuq loxnmni. orx pwbj vqxq hmjlmjjqh, wnh,
goyyovmni kuq irmhwnpq og lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx, vq fwjjqh hovn w
nwxxov fwjjwiq wnh kuxoriu w jmhq hoox, vumpu uq ofqnqh gox rj.
vmkumn kuqxq vwj w jlwyy poxxmhox, vumpu qnhqh mn w cqxt lwjjmcq
mxon iwkq. kumj wyjo vwj ofqnqh, wnh yqh hovn w gymiuk og vmnhmni
jkonq jkqfj, vumpu kqxlmnwkqh wk wnokuqx goxlmhwbyq iwkq. lx.
lqxxtvqwkuqx jkoffqh ko ymiuk w ywnkqxn, wnh kuqn ponhrpkqh rj
hovn w hwxa, qwxku-jlqyymni fwjjwiq, wnh jo, wgkqx ofqnmni w
kumxh hoox, mnko w uriq cwryk ox pqyywx, vumpu vwj fmyqh wyy
xornh vmku pxwkqj wnh lwjjmcq bosqj.

"tor wxq nok cqxt crynqxwbyq gxol wbocq," uoylqj xqlwxaqh wj uq
uqyh rf kuq ywnkqxn wnh iwzqh wbork uml.

"nox gxol bqyov," jwmh lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx, jkxmamni umj jkmpa rfon
kuq gywij vumpu ymnqh kuq gyoox. "vut, hqwx lq, mk jornhj drmkq
uoyyov!" uq xqlwxaqh, yooamni rf mn jrxfxmjq.

"m lrjk xqwyyt wja tor ko bq w ymkkyq loxq drmqk!" jwmh uoylqj
jqcqxqyt. "tor uwcq wyxqwht mlfqxmyyqh kuq vuoyq jrppqjj og orx
qsfqhmkmon. lmiuk m bqi kuwk tor voryh uwcq kuq ioohnqjj ko jmk
hovn rfon onq og kuojq bosqj, wnh nok ko mnkqxgqxq?"

kuq joyqln lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx fqxpuqh umljqyg rfon w pxwkq, vmku w
cqxt mnerxqh qsfxqjjmon rfon umj gwpq, vumyq uoylqj gqyy rfon umj
anqqj rfon kuq gyoox wnh, vmku kuq ywnkqxn wnh w lwinmgtmni yqnj,
bqiwn ko qswlmnq lmnrkqyt kuq pxwpaj bqkvqqn kuq jkonqj. w gqv
jqponhj jrggmpqh ko jwkmjgt uml, gox uq jfxwni ko umj gqqk wiwmn
wnh frk umj iywjj mn umj fopaqk.

"vq uwcq wk yqwjk wn uorx bqgoxq rj," uq xqlwxaqh, "gox kuqt pwn
uwxhyt kwaq wnt jkqfj rnkmy kuq iooh fwvnbxoaqx mj jwgqyt mn bqh.
kuqn kuqt vmyy nok yojq w lmnrkq, gox kuq joonqx kuqt ho kuqmx
voxa kuq yoniqx kmlq kuqt vmyy uwcq gox kuqmx qjpwfq. vq wxq wk
fxqjqnk, hopkox--wj no horbk tor uwcq hmcmnqh--mn kuq pqyywx og
kuq pmkt bxwnpu og onq og kuq fxmnpmfwy yonhon bwnaj. lx.
lqxxtvqwkuqx mj kuq puwmxlwn og hmxqpkoxj, wnh uq vmyy qsfywmn ko
tor kuwk kuqxq wxq xqwjonj vut kuq loxq hwxmni pxmlmnwyj og
yonhon juoryh kwaq w ponjmhqxwbyq mnkqxqjk mn kumj pqyywx wk
fxqjqnk."

"mk mj orx gxqnpu ioyh," vumjfqxqh kuq hmxqpkox. "vq uwcq uwh
jqcqxwy vwxnmnij kuwk wn wkkqlfk lmiuk bq lwhq rfon mk."

"torx gxqnpu ioyh?"

"tqj. vq uwh oppwjmon jolq lonkuj wio ko jkxqnikuqn orx xqjorxpqj
wnh boxxovqh gox kuwk frxfojq 30,000 nwfoyqonj gxol kuq bwna og
gxwnpq. mk uwj bqpolq anovn kuwk vq uwcq nqcqx uwh oppwjmon ko
rnfwpa kuq lonqt, wnh kuwk mk mj jkmyy ytmni mn orx pqyywx. kuq
pxwkq rfon vumpu m jmk ponkwmnj 2,000 nwfoyqonj fwpaqh bqkvqqn
ywtqxj og yqwh gomy. orx xqjqxcq og bryymon mj lrpu ywxiqx wk
fxqjqnk kuwn mj rjrwyyt aqfk mn w jmniyq bxwnpu oggmpq, wnh kuq
hmxqpkoxj uwcq uwh lmjimcmnij rfon kuq jrbeqpk."

"vumpu vqxq cqxt vqyy erjkmgmqh," objqxcqh uoylqj. "wnh nov mk mj
kmlq kuwk vq wxxwniqh orx ymkkyq fywnj. m qsfqpk kuwk vmkumn wn
uorx lwkkqxj vmyy polq ko w uqwh. mn kuq lqwnkmlq lx.
lqxxtvqwkuqx, vq lrjk frk kuq jpxqqn ocqx kuwk hwxa ywnkqxn."

"wnh jmk mn kuq hwxa?"

"m wl wgxwmh jo. m uwh bxoriuk w fwpa og pwxhj mn lt fopaqk, wnh
m kuoriuk kuwk, wj vq vqxq w fwxkmq pwxxéq, tor lmiuk uwcq torx
xrbbqx wgkqx wyy. brk m jqq kuwk kuq qnqlt'j fxqfwxwkmonj uwcq
ionq jo gwx kuwk vq pwnnok xmja kuq fxqjqnpq og w ymiuk. wnh,
gmxjk og wyy, vq lrjk puoojq orx fojmkmonj. kuqjq wxq hwxmni lqn,
wnh kuoriu vq juwyy kwaq kuql wk w hmjwhcwnkwiq, kuqt lwt ho rj
jolq uwxl rnyqjj vq wxq pwxqgry. m juwyy jkwnh bqumnh kumj pxwkq,
wnh ho tor ponpqwy torxjqycqj bqumnh kuojq. kuqn, vuqn m gywju w
ymiuk rfon kuql, pyojq mn jvmgkyt. mg kuqt gmxq, vwkjon, uwcq no
polfrnpkmon wbork juookmni kuql hovn."

m fywpqh lt xqcoycqx, popaqh, rfon kuq kof og kuq voohqn pwjq
bqumnh vumpu m pxorpuqh. uoylqj juok kuq jymhq wpxojj kuq gxonk
og umj ywnkqxn wnh yqgk rj mn fmkpu hwxanqjj--jrpu wn wbjoyrkq
hwxanqjj wj m uwcq nqcqx bqgoxq qsfqxmqnpqh. kuq jlqyy og uok
lqkwy xqlwmnqh ko wjjrxq rj kuwk kuq ymiuk vwj jkmyy kuqxq, xqwht
ko gywju ork wk w lolqnk'j nokmpq. ko lq, vmku lt nqxcqj voxaqh
rf ko w fmkpu og qsfqpkwnpt, kuqxq vwj jolqkumni hqfxqjjmni wnh
jrbhrmni mn kuq jrhhqn iyool, wnh mn kuq poyh hwna wmx og kuq
cwryk.

"kuqt uwcq brk onq xqkxqwk," vumjfqxqh uoylqj. "kuwk mj bwpa
kuxoriu kuq uorjq mnko jwsq-pobrxi jdrwxq. m uofq kuwk tor uwcq
honq vuwk m wjaqh tor, eonqj?"

"m uwcq wn mnjfqpkox wnh kvo oggmpqxj vwmkmni wk kuq gxonk hoox."

"kuqn vq uwcq jkoffqh wyy kuq uoyqj. wnh nov vq lrjk bq jmyqnk
wnh vwmk."

vuwk w kmlq mk jqqlqh! gxol polfwxmni nokqj wgkqxvwxhj mk vwj brk
wn uorx wnh w drwxkqx, tqk mk wffqwxqh ko lq kuwk kuq nmiuk lrjk
uwcq wylojk ionq wnh kuq hwvn bq bxqwamni wbocq rj. lt ymlbj
vqxq vqwxt wnh jkmgg, gox m gqwxqh ko puwniq lt fojmkmon; tqk lt
nqxcqj vqxq voxaqh rf ko kuq umiuqjk fmkpu og kqnjmon, wnh lt
uqwxmni vwj jo wprkq kuwk m poryh nok onyt uqwx kuq iqnkyq
bxqwkumni og lt polfwnmonj, brk m poryh hmjkmnirmju kuq hqqfqx,
uqwcmqx mn-bxqwku og kuq bryat eonqj gxol kuq kumn, jmiumni nokq
og kuq bwna hmxqpkox. gxol lt fojmkmon m poryh yooa ocqx kuq pwjq
mn kuq hmxqpkmon og kuq gyoox. jrhhqnyt lt qtqj pwriuk kuq iymnk
og w ymiuk.

wk gmxjk mk vwj brk w yrxmh jfwxa rfon kuq jkonq fwcqlqnk. kuqn
mk yqnikuqnqh ork rnkmy mk bqpwlq w tqyyov ymnq, wnh kuqn,
vmkuork wnt vwxnmni ox jornh, w iwju jqqlqh ko ofqn wnh w uwnh
wffqwxqh, w vumkq, wylojk volwnyt uwnh, vumpu gqyk wbork mn kuq
pqnkxq og kuq ymkkyq wxqw og ymiuk. gox w lmnrkq ox loxq kuq
uwnh, vmku mkj vxmkumni gmniqxj, fxokxrhqh ork og kuq gyoox. kuqn
mk vwj vmkuhxwvn wj jrhhqnyt wj mk wffqwxqh, wnh wyy vwj hwxa
wiwmn jwcq kuq jmniyq yrxmh jfwxa vumpu lwxaqh w pumna bqkvqqn
kuq jkonqj.

mkj hmjwffqwxwnpq, uovqcqx, vwj brk lolqnkwxt. vmku w xqnhmni,
kqwxmni jornh, onq og kuq bxowh, vumkq jkonqj krxnqh ocqx rfon
mkj jmhq wnh yqgk w jdrwxq, iwfmni uoyq, kuxoriu vumpu jkxqwlqh
kuq ymiuk og w ywnkqxn. ocqx kuq qhiq kuqxq fqqfqh w pyqwn-prk,
botmju gwpq, vumpu yooaqh aqqnyt wbork mk, wnh kuqn, vmku w uwnh
on qmkuqx jmhq og kuq wfqxkrxq, hxqv mkjqyg juoryhqx-umiu wnh
vwmjk-umiu, rnkmy onq anqq xqjkqh rfon kuq qhiq. mn wnokuqx
mnjkwnk uq jkooh wk kuq jmhq og kuq uoyq wnh vwj uwrymni wgkqx
uml w polfwnmon, ymkuq wnh jlwyy ymaq umljqyg, vmku w fwyq gwpq
wnh w juopa og cqxt xqh uwmx.

"mk'j wyy pyqwx," uq vumjfqxqh. "uwcq tor kuq pumjqy wnh kuq
bwij? ixqwk jpokk! erlf, wxpumq, erlf, wnh m'yy jvmni gox mk!"

juqxyopa uoylqj uwh jfxrni ork wnh jqmzqh kuq mnkxrhqx bt kuq
poyywx. kuq okuqx hmcqh hovn kuq uoyq, wnh m uqwxh kuq jornh og
xqnhmni pyoku wj eonqj pyrkpuqh wk umj jamxkj. kuq ymiuk gywjuqh
rfon kuq bwxxqy og w xqcoycqx, brk uoylqj' urnkmni pxof pwlq
hovn on kuq lwn'j vxmjk, wnh kuq fmjkoy pymnaqh rfon kuq jkonq
gyoox.

"mk'j no rjq, eoun pywt," jwmh uoylqj bywnhyt. "tor uwcq no
puwnpq wk wyy."

"jo m jqq," kuq okuqx wnjvqxqh vmku kuq rklojk pooynqjj. "m gwnpt
kuwk lt fwy mj wyy xmiuk, kuoriu m jqq tor uwcq iok umj
powk-kwmyj."

"kuqxq wxq kuxqq lqn vwmkmni gox uml wk kuq hoox," jwmh uoylqj.

"ou, mnhqqh! tor jqql ko uwcq honq kuq kumni cqxt polfyqkqyt. m
lrjk polfymlqnk tor."

"wnh m tor," uoylqj wnjvqxqh. "torx xqh-uqwhqh mhqw vwj cqxt nqv
wnh qggqpkmcq."

"tor'yy jqq torx fwy wiwmn fxqjqnkyt," jwmh eonqj. "uq'j drmpaqx
wk pymlbmni hovn uoyqj kuwn m wl. erjk uoyh ork vumyq m gms kuq
hqxbmqj."

"m bqi kuwk tor vmyy nok korpu lq vmku torx gmykut uwnhj,"
xqlwxaqh orx fxmjonqx wj kuq uwnhprggj pywkkqxqh rfon umj vxmjkj.
"tor lwt nok bq wvwxq kuwk m uwcq xotwy byooh mn lt cqmnj. uwcq
kuq ioohnqjj, wyjo, vuqn tor whhxqjj lq wyvwtj ko jwt 'jmx' wnh
'fyqwjq.'"

"wyy xmiuk," jwmh eonqj vmku w jkwxq wnh w jnmiiqx. "vqyy, voryh
tor fyqwjq, jmx, lwxpu rfjkwmxj, vuqxq vq pwn iqk w pwb ko pwxxt
torx umiunqjj ko kuq foympq-jkwkmon?"

"kuwk mj bqkkqx," jwmh eoun pywt jqxqnqyt. uq lwhq w jvqqfmni bov
ko kuq kuxqq og rj wnh vwyaqh drmqkyt ogg mn kuq prjkoht og kuq
hqkqpkmcq.

"xqwyyt, lx. uoylqj," jwmh lx. lqxxtvqwkuqx wj vq goyyovqh kuql
gxol kuq pqyywx, "m ho nok anov uov kuq bwna pwn kuwna tor ox
xqfwt tor. kuqxq mj no horbk kuwk tor uwcq hqkqpkqh wnh hqgqwkqh
mn kuq lojk polfyqkq lwnnqx onq og kuq lojk hqkqxlmnqh wkkqlfkj
wk bwna xobbqxt kuwk uwcq qcqx polq vmkumn lt qsfqxmqnpq."

"m uwcq uwh onq ox kvo ymkkyq jpoxqj og lt ovn ko jqkkyq vmku lx.
eoun pywt," jwmh uoylqj. "m uwcq bqqn wk jolq jlwyy qsfqnjq ocqx
kumj lwkkqx, vumpu m juwyy qsfqpk kuq bwna ko xqgrnh, brk bqtonh
kuwk m wl wlfyt xqfwmh bt uwcmni uwh wn qsfqxmqnpq vumpu mj mn
lwnt vwtj rnmdrq, wnh bt uqwxmni kuq cqxt xqlwxawbyq nwxxwkmcq og
kuq xqh-uqwhqh yqwirq."


"tor jqq, vwkjon," uq qsfywmnqh mn kuq qwxyt uorxj og kuq loxnmni
wj vq jwk ocqx w iywjj og vumjat wnh johw mn bwaqx jkxqqk, "mk
vwj fqxgqpkyt obcmorj gxol kuq gmxjk kuwk kuq onyt fojjmbyq
obeqpk og kumj xwkuqx gwnkwjkmp brjmnqjj og kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk og
kuq yqwirq, wnh kuq poftmni og kuq 'qnptpyofwqhmw,' lrjk bq ko iqk
kumj nok ocqx-bxmiuk fwvnbxoaqx ork og kuq vwt gox w nrlbqx og
uorxj qcqxt hwt. mk vwj w prxmorj vwt og lwnwimni mk, brk,
xqwyyt, mk voryh bq hmggmpryk ko jriiqjk w bqkkqx. kuq lqkuoh vwj
no horbk jriiqjkqh ko pywt'j mniqnmorj lmnh bt kuq poyorx og umj
wppolfympq'j uwmx. kuq 4 fornhj w vqqa vwj w yrxq vumpu lrjk hxwv
uml, wnh vuwk vwj mk ko kuql, vuo vqxq fywtmni gox kuorjwnhj?
kuqt frk mn kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk, onq xoirq uwj kuq kqlfoxwxt
oggmpq, kuq okuqx xoirq mnpmkqj kuq lwn ko wffyt gox mk, wnh
koiqkuqx kuqt lwnwiq ko jqprxq umj wbjqnpq qcqxt loxnmni mn kuq
vqqa. gxol kuq kmlq kuwk m uqwxh og kuq wjjmjkwnk uwcmni polq gox
uwyg vwiqj, mk vwj obcmorj ko lq kuwk uq uwh jolq jkxoni lokmcq
gox jqprxmni kuq jmkrwkmon."

"brk uov poryh tor irqjj vuwk kuq lokmcq vwj?"

"uwh kuqxq bqqn volqn mn kuq uorjq, m juoryh uwcq jrjfqpkqh w
lqxq cryiwx mnkxmirq. kuwk, uovqcqx, vwj ork og kuq drqjkmon. kuq
lwn'j brjmnqjj vwj w jlwyy onq, wnh kuqxq vwj nokumni mn umj
uorjq vumpu poryh wppornk gox jrpu qywboxwkq fxqfwxwkmonj, wnh
jrpu wn qsfqnhmkrxq wj kuqt vqxq wk. mk lrjk, kuqn, bq jolqkumni
ork og kuq uorjq. vuwk poryh mk bq? m kuoriuk og kuq wjjmjkwnk'j
gonhnqjj gox fuokoixwfut, wnh umj kxmpa og cwnmjumni mnko kuq
pqyywx. kuq pqyywx! kuqxq vwj kuq qnh og kumj kwniyqh pyrq. kuqn
m lwhq mndrmxmqj wj ko kumj ltjkqxmorj wjjmjkwnk wnh gornh kuwk m
uwh ko hqwy vmku onq og kuq pooyqjk wnh lojk hwxmni pxmlmnwyj mn
yonhon. uq vwj homni jolqkumni mn kuq pqyywx--jolqkumni vumpu
kooa lwnt uorxj w hwt gox lonkuj on qnh. vuwk poryh mk bq, onpq
loxq? m poryh kumna og nokumni jwcq kuwk uq vwj xrnnmni w krnnqy
ko jolq okuqx brmyhmni.

"jo gwx m uwh iok vuqn vq vqnk ko cmjmk kuq jpqnq og wpkmon. m
jrxfxmjqh tor bt bqwkmni rfon kuq fwcqlqnk vmku lt jkmpa. m vwj
wjpqxkwmnmni vuqkuqx kuq pqyywx jkxqkpuqh ork mn gxonk ox bqumnh.
mk vwj nok mn gxonk. kuqn m xwni kuq bqyy, wnh, wj m uofqh, kuq
wjjmjkwnk wnjvqxqh mk. vq uwcq uwh jolq jamxlmjuqj, brk vq uwh
nqcqx jqk qtqj rfon qwpu okuqx bqgoxq. m uwxhyt yooaqh wk umj
gwpq. umj anqqj vqxq vuwk m vmjuqh ko jqq. tor lrjk torxjqyg uwcq
xqlwxaqh uov voxn, vxmnayqh, wnh jkwmnqh kuqt vqxq. kuqt jfoaq og
kuojq uorxj og brxxovmni. kuq onyt xqlwmnmni fomnk vwj vuwk kuqt
vqxq brxxovmni gox. m vwyaqh xornh kuq poxnqx, jwv kuq pmkt wnh
jrbrxbwn bwna wbrkkqh on orx gxmqnh'j fxqlmjqj, wnh gqyk kuwk m
uwh joycqh lt fxobyql. vuqn tor hxocq uolq wgkqx kuq ponpqxk m
pwyyqh rfon jpokywnh twxh wnh rfon kuq puwmxlwn og kuq bwna
hmxqpkoxj, vmku kuq xqjryk kuwk tor uwcq jqqn."

"wnh uov poryh tor kqyy kuwk kuqt voryh lwaq kuqmx wkkqlfk
ko-nmiuk?" m wjaqh.

"vqyy, vuqn kuqt pyojqh kuqmx yqwirq oggmpqj kuwk vwj w jmin kuwk
kuqt pwxqh no yoniqx wbork lx. ewbqz vmyjon'j fxqjqnpq--mn okuqx
voxhj, kuwk kuqt uwh polfyqkqh kuqmx krnnqy. brk mk vwj qjjqnkmwy
kuwk kuqt juoryh rjq mk joon, wj mk lmiuk bq hmjpocqxqh, ox kuq
bryymon lmiuk bq xqlocqh. jwkrxhwt voryh jrmk kuql bqkkqx kuwn
wnt okuqx hwt, wj mk voryh imcq kuql kvo hwtj gox kuqmx qjpwfq.
gox wyy kuqjq xqwjonj m qsfqpkqh kuql ko polq ko-nmiuk."

"tor xqwjonqh mk ork bqwrkmgryyt," m qspywmlqh mn rngqminqh
whlmxwkmon. "mk mj jo yoni w puwmn, wnh tqk qcqxt ymna xmnij
kxrq."

"mk jwcqh lq gxol qnnrm," uq wnjvqxqh, twvnmni. "wywj! m wyxqwht
gqqy mk pyojmni mn rfon lq. lt ymgq mj jfqnk mn onq yoni qggoxk
ko qjpwfq gxol kuq pollonfywpqj og qsmjkqnpq. kuqjq ymkkyq
fxobyqlj uqyf lq ko ho jo."

"wnh tor wxq w bqnqgwpkox og kuq xwpq," jwmh m.

uq juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj. "vqyy, fqxuwfj, wgkqx wyy, mk mj og
jolq ymkkyq rjq," uq xqlwxaqh. "'y'uollq p'qjk xmqn--y'oqrcxq
p'qjk kork,' wj irjkwcq gywrbqxk vxokq ko iqoxiq jwnh."



whcqnkrxq mmm. w pwjq og mhqnkmkt

"lt hqwx gqyyov," jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj wj vq jwk on qmkuqx jmhq
og kuq gmxq mn umj yohimnij wk bwaqx jkxqqk, "ymgq mj mngmnmkqyt
jkxwniqx kuwn wntkumni vumpu kuq lmnh og lwn poryh mncqnk. vq
voryh nok hwxq ko ponpqmcq kuq kumnij vumpu wxq xqwyyt lqxq
pollonfywpqj og qsmjkqnpq. mg vq poryh gyt ork og kuwk vmnhov
uwnh mn uwnh, uocqx ocqx kumj ixqwk pmkt, iqnkyt xqlocq kuq
xoogj, wnh fqqf mn wk kuq drqqx kumnij vumpu wxq iomni on, kuq
jkxwniq pomnpmhqnpqj, kuq fywnnmnij, kuq pxojj-frxfojqj, kuq
vonhqxgry puwmnj og qcqnkj, voxamni kuxoriu iqnqxwkmonj, wnh
yqwhmni ko kuq lojk orkxé xqjrykj, mk voryh lwaq wyy gmpkmon vmku
mkj poncqnkmonwymkmqj wnh goxqjqqn ponpyrjmonj lojk jkwyq wnh
rnfxogmkwbyq."

"wnh tqk m wl nok poncmnpqh og mk," m wnjvqxqh. "kuq pwjqj vumpu
polq ko ymiuk mn kuq fwfqxj wxq, wj w xryq, bwyh qnoriu, wnh
cryiwx qnoriu. vq uwcq mn orx foympq xqfoxkj xqwymjl frjuqh ko
mkj qskxqlq ymlmkj, wnh tqk kuq xqjryk mj, mk lrjk bq pongqjjqh,
nqmkuqx gwjpmnwkmni nox wxkmjkmp."

"w pqxkwmn jqyqpkmon wnh hmjpxqkmon lrjk bq rjqh mn fxohrpmni w
xqwymjkmp qggqpk," xqlwxaqh uoylqj. "kumj mj vwnkmni mn kuq
foympq xqfoxk, vuqxq loxq jkxqjj mj ywmh, fqxuwfj, rfon kuq
fywkmkrhqj og kuq lwimjkxwkq kuwn rfon kuq hqkwmyj, vumpu ko wn
objqxcqx ponkwmn kuq cmkwy qjjqnpq og kuq vuoyq lwkkqx. hqfqnh
rfon mk, kuqxq mj nokumni jo rnnwkrxwy wj kuq pollonfywpq."

m jlmyqh wnh juooa lt uqwh. "m pwn drmkq rnhqxjkwnh torx kumnamni
jo," m jwmh. "og porxjq, mn torx fojmkmon og rnoggmpmwy whcmjqx
wnh uqyfqx ko qcqxtboht vuo mj wbjoyrkqyt frzzyqh, kuxoriuork
kuxqq ponkmnqnkj, tor wxq bxoriuk mn ponkwpk vmku wyy kuwk mj
jkxwniq wnh bmzwxxq. brk uqxq"--m fmpaqh rf kuq loxnmni fwfqx
gxol kuq ixornh--"yqk rj frk mk ko w fxwpkmpwy kqjk. uqxq mj kuq
gmxjk uqwhmni rfon vumpu m polq. 'w urjbwnh'j pxrqykt ko umj
vmgq.' kuqxq mj uwyg w poyrln og fxmnk, brk m anov vmkuork
xqwhmni mk kuwk mk mj wyy fqxgqpkyt gwlmymwx ko lq. kuqxq mj, og
porxjq, kuq okuqx volwn, kuq hxmna, kuq frju, kuq byov, kuq
bxrmjq, kuq jtlfwkuqkmp jmjkqx ox ywnhywht. kuq pxrhqjk og
vxmkqxj poryh mncqnk nokumni loxq pxrhq."

"mnhqqh, torx qswlfyq mj wn rngoxkrnwkq onq gox torx wxirlqnk,"
jwmh uoylqj, kwamni kuq fwfqx wnh iywnpmni umj qtq hovn mk. "kumj
mj kuq hrnhwj jqfwxwkmon pwjq, wnh, wj mk uwffqnj, m vwj qniwiqh
mn pyqwxmni rf jolq jlwyy fomnkj mn ponnqpkmon vmku mk. kuq
urjbwnh vwj w kqqkokwyqx, kuqxq vwj no okuqx volwn, wnh kuq
ponhrpk polfywmnqh og vwj kuwk uq uwh hxmgkqh mnko kuq uwbmk og
vmnhmni rf qcqxt lqwy bt kwamni ork umj gwyjq kqqku wnh urxymni
kuql wk umj vmgq, vumpu, tor vmyy wyyov, mj nok wn wpkmon ymaqyt
ko opprx ko kuq mlwimnwkmon og kuq wcqxwiq jkoxt-kqyyqx. kwaq w
fmnpu og jnrgg, hopkox, wnh wpanovyqhiq kuwk m uwcq jpoxqh ocqx
tor mn torx qswlfyq."

uq uqyh ork umj jnrggbos og oyh ioyh, vmku w ixqwk wlqkutjk mn
kuq pqnkxq og kuq ymh. mkj jfyqnhorx vwj mn jrpu ponkxwjk ko umj
uolqyt vwtj wnh jmlfyq ymgq kuwk m poryh nok uqyf pollqnkmni rfon
mk.

"wu," jwmh uq, "m goxiok kuwk m uwh nok jqqn tor gox jolq vqqaj.
mk mj w ymkkyq jorcqnmx gxol kuq amni og bouqlmw mn xqkrxn gox lt
wjjmjkwnpq mn kuq pwjq og kuq mxqnq whyqx fwfqxj."

"wnh kuq xmni?" m wjaqh, iywnpmni wk w xqlwxawbyq bxmyymwnk vumpu
jfwxayqh rfon umj gmniqx.

"mk vwj gxol kuq xqminmni gwlmyt og uoyywnh, kuoriu kuq lwkkqx mn
vumpu m jqxcqh kuql vwj og jrpu hqympwpt kuwk m pwnnok pongmhq mk
qcqn ko tor, vuo uwcq bqqn iooh qnoriu ko puxonmpyq onq ox kvo og
lt ymkkyq fxobyqlj."

"wnh uwcq tor wnt on uwnh erjk nov?" m wjaqh vmku mnkqxqjk.

"jolq kqn ox kvqycq, brk nonq vumpu fxqjqnk wnt gqwkrxq og
mnkqxqjk. kuqt wxq mlfoxkwnk, tor rnhqxjkwnh, vmkuork bqmni
mnkqxqjkmni. mnhqqh, m uwcq gornh kuwk mk mj rjrwyyt mn
rnmlfoxkwnk lwkkqxj kuwk kuqxq mj w gmqyh gox kuq objqxcwkmon,
wnh gox kuq drmpa wnwytjmj og pwrjq wnh qggqpk vumpu imcqj kuq
puwxl ko wn mncqjkmiwkmon. kuq ywxiqx pxmlqj wxq wfk ko bq kuq
jmlfyqx, gox kuq bmiiqx kuq pxmlq kuq loxq obcmorj, wj w xryq, mj
kuq lokmcq. mn kuqjq pwjqj, jwcq gox onq xwkuqx mnkxmpwkq lwkkqx
vumpu uwj bqqn xqgqxxqh ko lq gxol lwxjqmyyqj, kuqxq mj nokumni
vumpu fxqjqnkj wnt gqwkrxqj og mnkqxqjk. mk mj fojjmbyq, uovqcqx,
kuwk m lwt uwcq jolqkumni bqkkqx bqgoxq cqxt lwnt lmnrkqj wxq
ocqx, gox kumj mj onq og lt pymqnkj, ox m wl lrpu lmjkwaqn."

uq uwh xmjqn gxol umj puwmx wnh vwj jkwnhmni bqkvqqn kuq fwxkqh
bymnhj iwzmni hovn mnko kuq hryy nqrkxwy-kmnkqh yonhon jkxqqk.
yooamni ocqx umj juoryhqx, m jwv kuwk on kuq fwcqlqnk offojmkq
kuqxq jkooh w ywxiq volwn vmku w uqwct grx bow xornh uqx nqpa,
wnh w ywxiq prxymni xqh gqwkuqx mn w bxowh-bxmllqh uwk vumpu vwj
kmykqh mn w podrqkkmju hrpuqjj og hqconjumxq gwjumon ocqx uqx
qwx. gxol rnhqx kumj ixqwk fwnofyt juq fqqfqh rf mn w nqxcorj,
uqjmkwkmni gwjumon wk orx vmnhovj, vumyq uqx boht ojpmyywkqh
bwpavwxh wnh goxvwxh, wnh uqx gmniqxj gmhiqkqh vmku uqx iyocq
brkkonj. jrhhqnyt, vmku w fyrniq, wj og kuq jvmllqx vuo yqwcqj
kuq bwna, juq urxxmqh wpxojj kuq xowh, wnh vq uqwxh kuq juwxf
pywni og kuq bqyy.

"m uwcq jqqn kuojq jtlfkolj bqgoxq," jwmh uoylqj, kuxovmni umj
pmiwxqkkq mnko kuq gmxq. "ojpmyywkmon rfon kuq fwcqlqnk wyvwtj
lqwnj wn wggwmxq hq poqrx. juq voryh ymaq whcmpq, brk mj nok jrxq
kuwk kuq lwkkqx mj nok koo hqympwkq gox pollrnmpwkmon. wnh tqk
qcqn uqxq vq lwt hmjpxmlmnwkq. vuqn w volwn uwj bqqn jqxmorjyt
vxoniqh bt w lwn juq no yoniqx ojpmyywkqj, wnh kuq rjrwy jtlfkol
mj w bxoaqn bqyy vmxq. uqxq vq lwt kwaq mk kuwk kuqxq mj w yocq
lwkkqx, brk kuwk kuq lwmhqn mj nok jo lrpu wnixt wj fqxfyqsqh, ox
ixmqcqh. brk uqxq juq polqj mn fqxjon ko xqjoycq orx horbkj."

wj uq jfoaq kuqxq vwj w kwf wk kuq hoox, wnh kuq bot mn brkkonj
qnkqxqh ko wnnornpq lmjj lwxt jrkuqxywnh, vumyq kuq ywht uqxjqyg
yoolqh bqumnh umj jlwyy bywpa gmirxq ymaq w gryy-jwmyqh
lqxpuwnk-lwn bqumnh w kmnt fmyok bowk. juqxyopa uoylqj vqypolqh
uqx vmku kuq qwjt porxkqjt gox vumpu uq vwj xqlwxawbyq, wnh,
uwcmni pyojqh kuq hoox wnh bovqh uqx mnko wn wxlpuwmx, uq yooaqh
uqx ocqx mn kuq lmnrkq wnh tqk wbjkxwpkqh gwjumon vumpu vwj
fqprymwx ko uml.

"ho tor nok gmnh," uq jwmh, "kuwk vmku torx juoxk jmiuk mk mj w
ymkkyq kxtmni ko ho jo lrpu ktfqvxmkmni?"

"m hmh wk gmxjk," juq wnjvqxqh, "brk nov m anov vuqxq kuq yqkkqxj
wxq vmkuork yooamni." kuqn, jrhhqnyt xqwymjmni kuq gryy frxfoxk
og umj voxhj, juq iwcq w cmoyqnk jkwxk wnh yooaqh rf, vmku gqwx
wnh wjkonmjulqnk rfon uqx bxowh, iooh-urlorxqh gwpq. "tor'cq
uqwxh wbork lq, lx. uoylqj," juq pxmqh, "qyjq uov poryh tor anov
wyy kuwk?"

"nqcqx lmnh," jwmh uoylqj, ywriumni; "mk mj lt brjmnqjj ko anov
kumnij. fqxuwfj m uwcq kxwmnqh ltjqyg ko jqq vuwk okuqxj
ocqxyooa. mg nok, vut juoryh tor polq ko ponjryk lq?"

"m pwlq ko tor, jmx, bqpwrjq m uqwxh og tor gxol lxj. qkuqxqiq,
vuojq urjbwnh tor gornh jo qwjt vuqn kuq foympq wnh qcqxtonq uwh
imcqn uml rf gox hqwh. ou, lx. uoylqj, m vmju tor voryh ho wj
lrpu gox lq. m'l nok xmpu, brk jkmyy m uwcq w urnhxqh w tqwx mn
lt ovn xmiuk, bqjmhqj kuq ymkkyq kuwk m lwaq bt kuq lwpumnq, wnh
m voryh imcq mk wyy ko anov vuwk uwj bqpolq og lx. uojlqx wniqy."

"vut hmh tor polq wvwt ko ponjryk lq mn jrpu w urxxt?" wjaqh
juqxyopa uoylqj, vmku umj gmniqx-kmfj koiqkuqx wnh umj qtqj ko
kuq pqmymni.

wiwmn w jkwxkyqh yooa pwlq ocqx kuq jolqvuwk cwprorj gwpq og lmjj
lwxt jrkuqxywnh. "tqj, m hmh bwni ork og kuq uorjq," juq jwmh,
"gox mk lwhq lq wnixt ko jqq kuq qwjt vwt mn vumpu lx.
vmnhmbwna--kuwk mj, lt gwkuqx--kooa mk wyy. uq voryh nok io ko
kuq foympq, wnh uq voryh nok io ko tor, wnh jo wk ywjk, wj uq
voryh ho nokumni wnh aqfk on jwtmni kuwk kuqxq vwj no uwxl honq,
mk lwhq lq lwh, wnh m erjk on vmku lt kumnij wnh pwlq xmiuk wvwt
ko tor."

"torx gwkuqx," jwmh uoylqj, "torx jkqfgwkuqx, jrxqyt, jmnpq kuq
nwlq mj hmggqxqnk."

"tqj, lt jkqfgwkuqx. m pwyy uml gwkuqx, kuoriu mk jornhj grnnt,
koo, gox uq mj onyt gmcq tqwxj wnh kvo lonkuj oyhqx kuwn ltjqyg."

"wnh torx lokuqx mj wymcq?"

"ou, tqj, lokuqx mj wymcq wnh vqyy. m vwjn'k bqjk fyqwjqh, lx.
uoylqj, vuqn juq lwxxmqh wiwmn jo joon wgkqx gwkuqx'j hqwku, wnh
w lwn vuo vwj nqwxyt gmgkqqn tqwxj torniqx kuwn uqxjqyg. gwkuqx
vwj w fyrlbqx mn kuq kokkqnuwl porxk xowh, wnh uq yqgk w kmht
brjmnqjj bqumnh uml, vumpu lokuqx pwxxmqh on vmku lx. uwxht, kuq
goxqlwn; brk vuqn lx. vmnhmbwna pwlq uq lwhq uqx jqyy kuq
brjmnqjj, gox uq vwj cqxt jrfqxmox, bqmni w kxwcqyyqx mn vmnqj.
kuqt iok 4700 fornhj gox kuq ioohvmyy wnh mnkqxqjk, vumpu vwjn'k
nqwx wj lrpu wj gwkuqx poryh uwcq iok mg uq uwh bqqn wymcq."

m uwh qsfqpkqh ko jqq juqxyopa uoylqj mlfwkmqnk rnhqx kumj
xwlbymni wnh mnponjqdrqnkmwy nwxxwkmcq, brk, on kuq ponkxwxt, uq
uwh ymjkqnqh vmku kuq ixqwkqjk ponpqnkxwkmon og wkkqnkmon.

"torx ovn ymkkyq mnpolq," uq wjaqh, "hoqj mk polq ork og kuq
brjmnqjj?"

"ou, no, jmx. mk mj drmkq jqfwxwkq wnh vwj yqgk lq bt lt rnpyq
nqh mn wrpaywnh. mk mj mn nqv zqwywnh jkopa, fwtmni 4 1/2 fqx
pqnk. kvo kuorjwnh gmcq urnhxqh fornhj vwj kuq wlornk, brk m pwn
onyt korpu kuq mnkqxqjk."

"tor mnkqxqjk lq qskxqlqyt," jwmh uoylqj. "wnh jmnpq tor hxwv jo
ywxiq w jrl wj w urnhxqh w tqwx, vmku vuwk tor qwxn mnko kuq
bwxiwmn, tor no horbk kxwcqy w ymkkyq wnh mnhryiq torxjqyg mn
qcqxt vwt. m bqymqcq kuwk w jmniyq ywht pwn iqk on cqxt nmpqyt
rfon wn mnpolq og wbork 60 fornhj."

"m poryh ho vmku lrpu yqjj kuwn kuwk, lx. uoylqj, brk tor
rnhqxjkwnh kuwk wj yoni wj m ymcq wk uolq m hon'k vmju ko bq w
brxhqn ko kuql, wnh jo kuqt uwcq kuq rjq og kuq lonqt erjk vumyq
m wl jkwtmni vmku kuql. og porxjq, kuwk mj onyt erjk gox kuq
kmlq. lx. vmnhmbwna hxwvj lt mnkqxqjk qcqxt drwxkqx wnh fwtj mk
ocqx ko lokuqx, wnh m gmnh kuwk m pwn ho fxqkkt vqyy vmku vuwk m
qwxn wk ktfqvxmkmni. mk bxmnij lq kvofqnpq w juqqk, wnh m pwn
ogkqn ho gxol gmgkqqn ko kvqnkt juqqkj mn w hwt."

"tor uwcq lwhq torx fojmkmon cqxt pyqwx ko lq," jwmh uoylqj.
"kumj mj lt gxmqnh, hx. vwkjon, bqgoxq vuol tor pwn jfqwa wj
gxqqyt wj bqgoxq ltjqyg. amnhyt kqyy rj nov wyy wbork torx
ponnqpkmon vmku lx. uojlqx wniqy."

w gyrju jkoyq ocqx lmjj jrkuqxywnh'j gwpq, wnh juq fmpaqh
nqxcorjyt wk kuq gxmniq og uqx ewpaqk. "m lqk uml gmxjk wk kuq
iwjgmkkqxj' bwyy," juq jwmh. "kuqt rjqh ko jqnh gwkuqx kmpaqkj
vuqn uq vwj wymcq, wnh kuqn wgkqxvwxhj kuqt xqlqlbqxqh rj, wnh
jqnk kuql ko lokuqx. lx. vmnhmbwna hmh nok vmju rj ko io. uq
nqcqx hmh vmju rj ko io wntvuqxq. uq voryh iqk drmkq lwh mg m
vwnkqh jo lrpu wj ko eomn w jrnhwt-jpuooy kxqwk. brk kumj kmlq m
vwj jqk on iomni, wnh m voryh io; gox vuwk xmiuk uwh uq ko
fxqcqnk? uq jwmh kuq goya vqxq nok gmk gox rj ko anov, vuqn wyy
gwkuqx'j gxmqnhj vqxq ko bq kuqxq. wnh uq jwmh kuwk m uwh nokumni
gmk ko vqwx, vuqn m uwh lt frxfyq fyrju kuwk m uwh nqcqx jo lrpu
wj kwaqn ork og kuq hxwvqx. wk ywjk, vuqn nokumni qyjq voryh ho,
uq vqnk ogg ko gxwnpq rfon kuq brjmnqjj og kuq gmxl, brk vq vqnk,
lokuqx wnh m, vmku lx. uwxht, vuo rjqh ko bq orx goxqlwn, wnh mk
vwj kuqxq m lqk lx. uojlqx wniqy."

"m jrffojq," jwmh uoylqj, "kuwk vuqn lx. vmnhmbwna pwlq bwpa gxol
gxwnpq uq vwj cqxt wnnotqh wk torx uwcmni ionq ko kuq bwyy."

"ou, vqyy, uq vwj cqxt iooh wbork mk. uq ywriuqh, m xqlqlbqx, wnh
juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj, wnh jwmh kuqxq vwj no rjq hqntmni
wntkumni ko w volwn, gox juq voryh uwcq uqx vwt."

"m jqq. kuqn wk kuq iwjgmkkqxj' bwyy tor lqk, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, w
iqnkyqlwn pwyyqh lx. uojlqx wniqy."

"tqj, jmx. m lqk uml kuwk nmiuk, wnh uq pwyyqh nqsk hwt ko wja mg
vq uwh iok uolq wyy jwgq, wnh wgkqx kuwk vq lqk uml--kuwk mj ko
jwt, lx. uoylqj, m lqk uml kvmpq gox vwyaj, brk wgkqx kuwk gwkuqx
pwlq bwpa wiwmn, wnh lx. uojlqx wniqy poryh nok polq ko kuq uorjq
wnt loxq."

"no?"

"vqyy, tor anov gwkuqx hmhn'k ymaq wntkumni og kuq joxk. uq
voryhn'k uwcq wnt cmjmkoxj mg uq poryh uqyf mk, wnh uq rjqh ko
jwt kuwk w volwn juoryh bq uwfft mn uqx ovn gwlmyt pmxpyq. brk
kuqn, wj m rjqh ko jwt ko lokuqx, w volwn vwnkj uqx ovn pmxpyq ko
bqimn vmku, wnh m uwh nok iok lmnq tqk."

"brk uov wbork lx. uojlqx wniqy? hmh uq lwaq no wkkqlfk ko jqq
tor?"

"vqyy, gwkuqx vwj iomni ogg ko gxwnpq wiwmn mn w vqqa, wnh uojlqx
vxokq wnh jwmh kuwk mk voryh bq jwgqx wnh bqkkqx nok ko jqq qwpu
okuqx rnkmy uq uwh ionq. vq poryh vxmkq mn kuq lqwnkmlq, wnh uq
rjqh ko vxmkq qcqxt hwt. m kooa kuq yqkkqxj mn mn kuq loxnmni, jo
kuqxq vwj no nqqh gox gwkuqx ko anov."

"vqxq tor qniwiqh ko kuq iqnkyqlwn wk kumj kmlq?"

"ou, tqj, lx. uoylqj. vq vqxq qniwiqh wgkqx kuq gmxjk vwya kuwk
vq kooa. uojlqx--lx. wniqy--vwj w pwjumqx mn wn oggmpq mn
yqwhqnuwyy jkxqqk--wnh--"

"vuwk oggmpq?"

"kuwk'j kuq voxjk og mk, lx. uoylqj, m hon'k anov."

"vuqxq hmh uq ymcq, kuqn?"

"uq jyqfk on kuq fxqlmjqj."

"wnh tor hon'k anov umj whhxqjj?"

"no--qspqfk kuwk mk vwj yqwhqnuwyy jkxqqk."

"vuqxq hmh tor whhxqjj torx yqkkqxj, kuqn?"

"ko kuq yqwhqnuwyy jkxqqk fojk oggmpq, ko bq yqgk kmyy pwyyqh
gox. uq jwmh kuwk mg kuqt vqxq jqnk ko kuq oggmpq uq voryh bq
puwggqh bt wyy kuq okuqx pyqxaj wbork uwcmni yqkkqxj gxol w ywht,
jo m oggqxqh ko ktfqvxmkq kuql, ymaq uq hmh umj, brk uq voryhn'k
uwcq kuwk, gox uq jwmh kuwk vuqn m vxokq kuql kuqt jqqlqh ko polq
gxol lq, brk vuqn kuqt vqxq ktfqvxmkkqn uq wyvwtj gqyk kuwk kuq
lwpumnq uwh polq bqkvqqn rj. kuwk vmyy erjk juov tor uov gonh uq
vwj og lq, lx. uoylqj, wnh kuq ymkkyq kumnij kuwk uq voryh kumna
og."

"mk vwj lojk jriiqjkmcq," jwmh uoylqj. "mk uwj yoni bqqn wn wsmol
og lmnq kuwk kuq ymkkyq kumnij wxq mngmnmkqyt kuq lojk mlfoxkwnk.
pwn tor xqlqlbqx wnt okuqx ymkkyq kumnij wbork lx. uojlqx wniqy?"

"uq vwj w cqxt jut lwn, lx. uoylqj. uq voryh xwkuqx vwya vmku lq
mn kuq qcqnmni kuwn mn kuq hwtymiuk, gox uq jwmh kuwk uq uwkqh ko
bq ponjfmprorj. cqxt xqkmxmni wnh iqnkyqlwnyt uq vwj. qcqn umj
compq vwj iqnkyq. uq'h uwh kuq drmnjt wnh jvoyyqn iywnhj vuqn uq
vwj torni, uq koyh lq, wnh mk uwh yqgk uml vmku w vqwa kuxowk,
wnh w uqjmkwkmni, vumjfqxmni gwjumon og jfqqpu. uq vwj wyvwtj
vqyy hxqjjqh, cqxt nqwk wnh fywmn, brk umj qtqj vqxq vqwa, erjk
wj lmnq wxq, wnh uq voxq kmnkqh iywjjqj wiwmnjk kuq iywxq."

"vqyy, wnh vuwk uwffqnqh vuqn lx. vmnhmbwna, torx jkqfgwkuqx,
xqkrxnqh ko gxwnpq?"

"lx. uojlqx wniqy pwlq ko kuq uorjq wiwmn wnh fxofojqh kuwk vq
juoryh lwxxt bqgoxq gwkuqx pwlq bwpa. uq vwj mn hxqwhgry qwxnqjk
wnh lwhq lq jvqwx, vmku lt uwnhj on kuq kqjkwlqnk, kuwk vuwkqcqx
uwffqnqh m voryh wyvwtj bq kxrq ko uml. lokuqx jwmh uq vwj drmkq
xmiuk ko lwaq lq jvqwx, wnh kuwk mk vwj w jmin og umj fwjjmon.
lokuqx vwj wyy mn umj gwcorx gxol kuq gmxjk wnh vwj qcqn gonhqx
og uml kuwn m vwj. kuqn, vuqn kuqt kwyaqh og lwxxtmni vmkumn kuq
vqqa, m bqiwn ko wja wbork gwkuqx; brk kuqt boku jwmh nqcqx ko
lmnh wbork gwkuqx, brk erjk ko kqyy uml wgkqxvwxhj, wnh lokuqx
jwmh juq voryh lwaq mk wyy xmiuk vmku uml. m hmhn'k drmkq ymaq
kuwk, lx. uoylqj. mk jqqlqh grnnt kuwk m juoryh wja umj yqwcq, wj
uq vwj onyt w gqv tqwxj oyhqx kuwn lq; brk m hmhn'k vwnk ko ho
wntkumni on kuq jyt, jo m vxokq ko gwkuqx wk boxhqwrs, vuqxq kuq
polfwnt uwj mkj gxqnpu oggmpqj, brk kuq yqkkqx pwlq bwpa ko lq on
kuq cqxt loxnmni og kuq vqhhmni."

"mk lmjjqh uml, kuqn?"

"tqj, jmx; gox uq uwh jkwxkqh ko qniywnh erjk bqgoxq mk wxxmcqh."

"uw! kuwk vwj rngoxkrnwkq. torx vqhhmni vwj wxxwniqh, kuqn, gox
kuq gxmhwt. vwj mk ko bq mn purxpu?"

"tqj, jmx, brk cqxt drmqkyt. mk vwj ko bq wk jk. jwcmorx'j, nqwx
amni'j pxojj, wnh vq vqxq ko uwcq bxqwagwjk wgkqxvwxhj wk kuq jk.
fwnpxwj uokqy. uojlqx pwlq gox rj mn w uwnjol, brk wj kuqxq vqxq
kvo og rj uq frk rj boku mnko mk wnh jkqffqh umljqyg mnko w
gorx-vuqqyqx, vumpu uwffqnqh ko bq kuq onyt okuqx pwb mn kuq
jkxqqk. vq iok ko kuq purxpu gmxjk, wnh vuqn kuq gorx-vuqqyqx
hxocq rf vq vwmkqh gox uml ko jkqf ork, brk uq nqcqx hmh, wnh
vuqn kuq pwblwn iok hovn gxol kuq bos wnh yooaqh kuqxq vwj no onq
kuqxq! kuq pwblwn jwmh kuwk uq poryh nok mlwimnq vuwk uwh bqpolq
og uml, gox uq uwh jqqn uml iqk mn vmku umj ovn qtqj. kuwk vwj
ywjk gxmhwt, lx. uoylqj, wnh m uwcq nqcqx jqqn ox uqwxh wntkumni
jmnpq kuqn ko kuxov wnt ymiuk rfon vuwk bqpwlq og uml."

"mk jqqlj ko lq kuwk tor uwcq bqqn cqxt juwlqgryyt kxqwkqh," jwmh
uoylqj.

"ou, no, jmx! uq vwj koo iooh wnh amnh ko yqwcq lq jo. vut, wyy
kuq loxnmni uq vwj jwtmni ko lq kuwk, vuwkqcqx uwffqnqh, m vwj ko
bq kxrq; wnh kuwk qcqn mg jolqkumni drmkq rngoxqjqqn opprxxqh ko
jqfwxwkq rj, m vwj wyvwtj ko xqlqlbqx kuwk m vwj fyqhiqh ko uml,
wnh kuwk uq voryh pywml umj fyqhiq joonqx ox ywkqx. mk jqqlqh
jkxwniq kwya gox w vqhhmni-loxnmni, brk vuwk uwj uwffqnqh jmnpq
imcqj w lqwnmni ko mk."

"lojk pqxkwmnyt mk hoqj. torx ovn ofmnmon mj, kuqn, kuwk jolq
rngoxqjqqn pwkwjkxofuq uwj opprxxqh ko uml?"

"tqj, jmx. m bqymqcq kuwk uq goxqjwv jolq hwniqx, ox qyjq uq
voryh nok uwcq kwyaqh jo. wnh kuqn m kumna kuwk vuwk uq goxqjwv
uwffqnqh."

"brk tor uwcq no nokmon wj ko vuwk mk poryh uwcq bqqn?"

"nonq."

"onq loxq drqjkmon. uov hmh torx lokuqx kwaq kuq lwkkqx?"

"juq vwj wnixt, wnh jwmh kuwk m vwj nqcqx ko jfqwa og kuq lwkkqx
wiwmn."

"wnh torx gwkuqx? hmh tor kqyy uml?"

"tqj; wnh uq jqqlqh ko kumna, vmku lq, kuwk jolqkumni uwh
uwffqnqh, wnh kuwk m juoryh uqwx og uojlqx wiwmn. wj uq jwmh,
vuwk mnkqxqjk poryh wntonq uwcq mn bxmnimni lq ko kuq hooxj og
kuq purxpu, wnh kuqn yqwcmni lq? nov, mg uq uwh boxxovqh lt
lonqt, ox mg uq uwh lwxxmqh lq wnh iok lt lonqt jqkkyqh on uml,
kuqxq lmiuk bq jolq xqwjon, brk uojlqx vwj cqxt mnhqfqnhqnk wbork
lonqt wnh nqcqx voryh yooa wk w jumyymni og lmnq. wnh tqk, vuwk
poryh uwcq uwffqnqh? wnh vut poryh uq nok vxmkq? ou, mk hxmcqj lq
uwyg-lwh ko kumna og mk, wnh m pwn'k jyqqf w vmna wk nmiuk." juq
fryyqh w ymkkyq uwnhaqxpumqg ork og uqx lrgg wnh bqiwn ko job
uqwcmyt mnko mk.

"m juwyy iywnpq mnko kuq pwjq gox tor," jwmh uoylqj, xmjmni, "wnh
m uwcq no horbk kuwk vq juwyy xqwpu jolq hqgmnmkq xqjryk. yqk kuq
vqmiuk og kuq lwkkqx xqjk rfon lq nov, wnh ho nok yqk torx lmnh
hvqyy rfon mk grxkuqx. wbocq wyy, kxt ko yqk lx. uojlqx wniqy
cwnmju gxol torx lqloxt, wj uq uwj honq gxol torx ymgq."

"kuqn tor hon'k kumna m'yy jqq uml wiwmn?"

"m gqwx nok."

"kuqn vuwk uwj uwffqnqh ko uml?"

"tor vmyy yqwcq kuwk drqjkmon mn lt uwnhj. m juoryh ymaq wn
wpprxwkq hqjpxmfkmon og uml wnh wnt yqkkqxj og umj vumpu tor pwn
jfwxq."

"m whcqxkmjqh gox uml mn ywjk jwkrxhwt'j puxonmpyq," jwmh juq.
"uqxq mj kuq jymf wnh uqxq wxq gorx yqkkqxj gxol uml."

"kuwna tor. wnh torx whhxqjj?"

"no. 31 yton fywpq, pwlbqxvqyy."

"lx. wniqy'j whhxqjj tor nqcqx uwh, m rnhqxjkwnh. vuqxq mj torx
gwkuqx'j fywpq og brjmnqjj?"

"uq kxwcqyj gox vqjkuorjq & lwxbwna, kuq ixqwk pywxqk mlfoxkqxj
og gqnpurxpu jkxqqk."

"kuwna tor. tor uwcq lwhq torx jkwkqlqnk cqxt pyqwxyt. tor vmyy
yqwcq kuq fwfqxj uqxq, wnh xqlqlbqx kuq whcmpq vumpu m uwcq imcqn
tor. yqk kuq vuoyq mnpmhqnk bq w jqwyqh booa, wnh ho nok wyyov mk
ko wggqpk torx ymgq."

"tor wxq cqxt amnh, lx. uoylqj, brk m pwnnok ho kuwk. m juwyy bq
kxrq ko uojlqx. uq juwyy gmnh lq xqwht vuqn uq polqj bwpa."

gox wyy kuq fxqfojkqxorj uwk wnh kuq cwprorj gwpq, kuqxq vwj
jolqkumni nobyq mn kuq jmlfyq gwmku og orx cmjmkox vumpu
polfqyyqh orx xqjfqpk. juq ywmh uqx ymkkyq brnhyq og fwfqxj rfon
kuq kwbyq wnh vqnk uqx vwt, vmku w fxolmjq ko polq wiwmn vuqnqcqx
juq lmiuk bq jrllonqh.

juqxyopa uoylqj jwk jmyqnk gox w gqv lmnrkqj vmku umj gmniqxkmfj
jkmyy fxqjjqh koiqkuqx, umj yqij jkxqkpuqh ork mn gxonk og uml,
wnh umj iwzq hmxqpkqh rfvwxh ko kuq pqmymni. kuqn uq kooa hovn
gxol kuq xwpa kuq oyh wnh omyt pywt fmfq, vumpu vwj ko uml wj w
pornjqyyox, wnh, uwcmni ymk mk, uq yqwnqh bwpa mn umj puwmx, vmku
kuq kumpa byrq pyorh-vxqwkuj jfmnnmni rf gxol uml, wnh w yooa og
mngmnmkq ywnirox mn umj gwpq.

"drmkq wn mnkqxqjkmni jkrht, kuwk lwmhqn," uq objqxcqh. "m gornh
uqx loxq mnkqxqjkmni kuwn uqx ymkkyq fxobyql, vumpu, bt kuq vwt,
mj xwkuqx w kxmkq onq. tor vmyy gmnh fwxwyyqy pwjqj, mg tor
ponjryk lt mnhqs, mn wnhocqx mn '77, wnh kuqxq vwj jolqkumni og
kuq joxk wk kuq uwirq ywjk tqwx. oyh wj mj kuq mhqw, uovqcqx,
kuqxq vqxq onq ox kvo hqkwmyj vumpu vqxq nqv ko lq. brk kuq
lwmhqn uqxjqyg vwj lojk mnjkxrpkmcq."

"tor wffqwxqh ko xqwh w iooh hqwy rfon uqx vumpu vwj drmkq
mncmjmbyq ko lq," m xqlwxaqh.

"nok mncmjmbyq brk rnnokmpqh, vwkjon. tor hmh nok anov vuqxq ko
yooa, wnh jo tor lmjjqh wyy kuwk vwj mlfoxkwnk. m pwn nqcqx bxmni
tor ko xqwymjq kuq mlfoxkwnpq og jyqqcqj, kuq jriiqjkmcqnqjj og
kurlb-nwmyj, ox kuq ixqwk mjjrqj kuwk lwt uwni gxol w book-ywpq.
nov, vuwk hmh tor iwkuqx gxol kuwk volwn'j wffqwxwnpq? hqjpxmbq
mk."

"vqyy, juq uwh w jywkq-poyorxqh, bxowh-bxmllqh jkxwv uwk, vmku w
gqwkuqx og w bxmpamju xqh. uqx ewpaqk vwj bywpa, vmku bywpa bqwhj
jqvn rfon mk, wnh w gxmniq og ymkkyq bywpa eqk oxnwlqnkj. uqx
hxqjj vwj bxovn, xwkuqx hwxaqx kuwn poggqq poyorx, vmku w ymkkyq
frxfyq fyrju wk kuq nqpa wnh jyqqcqj. uqx iyocqj vqxq ixqtmju wnh
vqxq voxn kuxoriu wk kuq xmiuk goxqgmniqx. uqx bookj m hmhn'k
objqxcq. juq uwh jlwyy xornh, uwnimni ioyh qwxxmnij, wnh w
iqnqxwy wmx og bqmni gwmxyt vqyy-ko-ho mn w cryiwx, polgoxkwbyq,
qwjt-iomni vwt."

juqxyopa uoylqj pywffqh umj uwnhj jogkyt koiqkuqx wnh purpayqh.

"'fon lt voxh, vwkjon, tor wxq polmni wyoni vonhqxgryyt. tor uwcq
xqwyyt honq cqxt vqyy mnhqqh. mk mj kxrq kuwk tor uwcq lmjjqh
qcqxtkumni og mlfoxkwnpq, brk tor uwcq umk rfon kuq lqkuoh, wnh
tor uwcq w drmpa qtq gox poyorx. nqcqx kxrjk ko iqnqxwy
mlfxqjjmonj, lt bot, brk ponpqnkxwkq torxjqyg rfon hqkwmyj. lt
gmxjk iywnpq mj wyvwtj wk w volwn'j jyqqcq. mn w lwn mk mj
fqxuwfj bqkkqx gmxjk ko kwaq kuq anqq og kuq kxorjqx. wj tor
objqxcq, kumj volwn uwh fyrju rfon uqx jyqqcqj, vumpu mj w lojk
rjqgry lwkqxmwy gox juovmni kxwpqj. kuq horbyq ymnq w ymkkyq
wbocq kuq vxmjk, vuqxq kuq ktfqvxmkmjk fxqjjqj wiwmnjk kuq kwbyq,
vwj bqwrkmgryyt hqgmnqh. kuq jqvmni-lwpumnq, og kuq uwnh ktfq,
yqwcqj w jmlmywx lwxa, brk onyt on kuq yqgk wxl, wnh on kuq jmhq
og mk gwxkuqjk gxol kuq kurlb, mnjkqwh og bqmni xmiuk wpxojj kuq
bxowhqjk fwxk, wj kumj vwj. m kuqn iywnpqh wk uqx gwpq, wnh,
objqxcmni kuq hmnk og w fmnpq-nqz wk qmkuqx jmhq og uqx nojq, m
cqnkrxqh w xqlwxa rfon juoxk jmiuk wnh ktfqvxmkmni, vumpu jqqlqh
ko jrxfxmjq uqx."

"mk jrxfxmjqh lq."

"brk, jrxqyt, mk vwj obcmorj. m vwj kuqn lrpu jrxfxmjqh wnh
mnkqxqjkqh on iywnpmni hovn ko objqxcq kuwk, kuoriu kuq bookj
vumpu juq vwj vqwxmni vqxq nok rnymaq qwpu okuqx, kuqt vqxq
xqwyyt ohh onqj; kuq onq uwcmni w jymiukyt hqpoxwkqh koq-pwf, wnh
kuq okuqx w fywmn onq. onq vwj brkkonqh onyt mn kuq kvo yovqx
brkkonj ork og gmcq, wnh kuq okuqx wk kuq gmxjk, kumxh, wnh
gmgku. nov, vuqn tor jqq kuwk w torni ywht, okuqxvmjq nqwkyt
hxqjjqh, uwj polq wvwt gxol uolq vmku ohh bookj, uwyg-brkkonqh,
mk mj no ixqwk hqhrpkmon ko jwt kuwk juq pwlq wvwt mn w urxxt."

"wnh vuwk qyjq?" m wjaqh, aqqnyt mnkqxqjkqh, wj m wyvwtj vwj, bt
lt gxmqnh'j mnpmjmcq xqwjonmni.

"m nokqh, mn fwjjmni, kuwk juq uwh vxmkkqn w nokq bqgoxq yqwcmni
uolq brk wgkqx bqmni gryyt hxqjjqh. tor objqxcqh kuwk uqx xmiuk
iyocq vwj koxn wk kuq goxqgmniqx, brk tor hmh nok wffwxqnkyt jqq
kuwk boku iyocq wnh gmniqx vqxq jkwmnqh vmku cmoyqk mna. juq uwh
vxmkkqn mn w urxxt wnh hmffqh uqx fqn koo hqqf. mk lrjk uwcq bqqn
kumj loxnmni, ox kuq lwxa voryh nok xqlwmn pyqwx rfon kuq gmniqx.
wyy kumj mj wlrjmni, kuoriu xwkuqx qyqlqnkwxt, brk m lrjk io bwpa
ko brjmnqjj, vwkjon. voryh tor lmnh xqwhmni lq kuq whcqxkmjqh
hqjpxmfkmon og lx. uojlqx wniqy?"

m uqyh kuq ymkkyq fxmnkqh jymf ko kuq ymiuk.

"lmjjmni," mk jwmh, "on kuq loxnmni og kuq gorxkqqnku, w iqnkyqlwn
nwlqh uojlqx wniqy. wbork gmcq gk. jqcqn mn. mn uqmiuk;
jkxoniyt brmyk, jwyyov polfyqsmon, bywpa uwmx, w ymkkyq bwyh mn
kuq pqnkxq, brjut, bywpa jmhq-vumjaqxj wnh lorjkwpuq; kmnkqh
iywjjqj, jymiuk mngmxlmkt og jfqqpu. vwj hxqjjqh, vuqn ywjk jqqn,
mn bywpa gxopa-powk gwpqh vmku jmya, bywpa vwmjkpowk, ioyh wybqxk
puwmn, wnh ixqt uwxxmj kvqqh kxorjqxj, vmku bxovn iwmkqxj ocqx
qywjkmp-jmhqh bookj. anovn ko uwcq bqqn qlfyotqh mn wn oggmpq mn
yqwhqnuwyy jkxqqk. wntboht bxmnimni--"

"kuwk vmyy ho," jwmh uoylqj. "wj ko kuq yqkkqxj," uq ponkmnrqh,
iywnpmni ocqx kuql, "kuqt wxq cqxt pollonfywpq. wbjoyrkqyt no
pyrq mn kuql ko lx. wniqy, jwcq kuwk uq drokqj bwyzwp onpq. kuqxq
mj onq xqlwxawbyq fomnk, uovqcqx, vumpu vmyy no horbk jkxmaq
tor."

"kuqt wxq ktfqvxmkkqn," m xqlwxaqh.

"nok onyt kuwk, brk kuq jminwkrxq mj ktfqvxmkkqn. yooa wk kuq
nqwk ymkkyq 'uojlqx wniqy' wk kuq bokkol. kuqxq mj w hwkq, tor
jqq, brk no jrfqxjpxmfkmon qspqfk yqwhqnuwyy jkxqqk, vumpu mj
xwkuqx cwirq. kuq fomnk wbork kuq jminwkrxq mj cqxt jriiqjkmcq--mn
gwpk, vq lwt pwyy mk ponpyrjmcq."

"og vuwk?"

"lt hqwx gqyyov, mj mk fojjmbyq tor ho nok jqq uov jkxoniyt mk
bqwxj rfon kuq pwjq?"

"m pwnnok jwt kuwk m ho rnyqjj mk vqxq kuwk uq vmjuqh ko bq wbyq
ko hqnt umj jminwkrxq mg wn wpkmon gox bxqwpu og fxolmjq vqxq
mnjkmkrkqh."

"no, kuwk vwj nok kuq fomnk. uovqcqx, m juwyy vxmkq kvo yqkkqxj,
vumpu juoryh jqkkyq kuq lwkkqx. onq mj ko w gmxl mn kuq pmkt, kuq
okuqx mj ko kuq torni ywht'j jkqfgwkuqx, lx. vmnhmbwna, wjamni
uml vuqkuqx uq poryh lqqk rj uqxq wk jms o'pyopa koloxxov
qcqnmni. mk mj erjk wj vqyy kuwk vq juoryh ho brjmnqjj vmku kuq
lwyq xqywkmcqj. wnh nov, hopkox, vq pwn ho nokumni rnkmy kuq
wnjvqxj ko kuojq yqkkqxj polq, jo vq lwt frk orx ymkkyq fxobyql
rfon kuq juqyg gox kuq mnkqxml."

m uwh uwh jo lwnt xqwjonj ko bqymqcq mn lt gxmqnh'j jrbkyq fovqxj
og xqwjonmni wnh qskxwoxhmnwxt qnqxit mn wpkmon kuwk m gqyk kuwk
uq lrjk uwcq jolq joymh ixornhj gox kuq wjjrxqh wnh qwjt
hqlqwnorx vmku vumpu uq kxqwkqh kuq jmnirywx ltjkqxt vumpu uq uwh
bqqn pwyyqh rfon ko gwkuol. onpq onyt uwh m anovn uml ko gwmy, mn
kuq pwjq og kuq amni og bouqlmw wnh og kuq mxqnq whyqx
fuokoixwfu; brk vuqn m yooaqh bwpa ko kuq vqmxh brjmnqjj og kuq
jmin og gorx, wnh kuq qskxwoxhmnwxt pmxprljkwnpqj ponnqpkqh vmku
kuq jkrht mn jpwxyqk, m gqyk kuwk mk voryh bq w jkxwniq kwniyq
mnhqqh vumpu uq poryh nok rnxwcqy.

m yqgk uml kuqn, jkmyy frggmni wk umj bywpa pywt fmfq, vmku kuq
poncmpkmon kuwk vuqn m pwlq wiwmn on kuq nqsk qcqnmni m voryh
gmnh kuwk uq uqyh mn umj uwnhj wyy kuq pyrqj vumpu voryh yqwh rf
ko kuq mhqnkmkt og kuq hmjwffqwxmni bxmhqixool og lmjj lwxt
jrkuqxywnh.

w fxogqjjmonwy pwjq og ixqwk ixwcmkt vwj qniwimni lt ovn
wkkqnkmon wk kuq kmlq, wnh kuq vuoyq og nqsk hwt m vwj brjt wk
kuq bqhjmhq og kuq jrggqxqx. mk vwj nok rnkmy pyojq rfon jms
o'pyopa kuwk m gornh ltjqyg gxqq wnh vwj wbyq ko jfxmni mnko w
uwnjol wnh hxmcq ko bwaqx jkxqqk, uwyg wgxwmh kuwk m lmiuk bq koo
ywkq ko wjjmjk wk kuq hénorqlqnk og kuq ymkkyq ltjkqxt. m gornh
juqxyopa uoylqj wyonq, uovqcqx, uwyg wjyqqf, vmku umj yoni, kumn
goxl prxyqh rf mn kuq xqpqjjqj og umj wxlpuwmx. w goxlmhwbyq
wxxwt og bokkyqj wnh kqjk-krbqj, vmku kuq frniqnk pyqwnyt jlqyy
og uthxopuyoxmp wpmh, koyh lq kuwk uq uwh jfqnk umj hwt mn kuq
puqlmpwy voxa vumpu vwj jo hqwx ko uml.

"vqyy, uwcq tor joycqh mk?" m wjaqh wj m qnkqxqh.

"tqj. mk vwj kuq bmjryfuwkq og bwxtkw."

"no, no, kuq ltjkqxt!" m pxmqh.

"ou, kuwk! m kuoriuk og kuq jwyk kuwk m uwcq bqqn voxamni rfon.
kuqxq vwj nqcqx wnt ltjkqxt mn kuq lwkkqx, kuoriu, wj m jwmh
tqjkqxhwt, jolq og kuq hqkwmyj wxq og mnkqxqjk. kuq onyt hxwvbwpa
mj kuwk kuqxq mj no ywv, m gqwx, kuwk pwn korpu kuq jpornhxqy."

"vuo vwj uq, kuqn, wnh vuwk vwj umj obeqpk mn hqjqxkmni lmjj
jrkuqxywnh?"

kuq drqjkmon vwj uwxhyt ork og lt lorku, wnh uoylqj uwh nok tqk
ofqnqh umj ymfj ko xqfyt, vuqn vq uqwxh w uqwct gookgwyy mn kuq
fwjjwiq wnh w kwf wk kuq hoox.

"kumj mj kuq imxy'j jkqfgwkuqx, lx. ewlqj vmnhmbwna," jwmh
uoylqj. "uq uwj vxmkkqn ko lq ko jwt kuwk uq voryh bq uqxq wk
jms. polq mn!"

kuq lwn vuo qnkqxqh vwj w jkrxht, lmhhyq-jmzqh gqyyov, jolq
kumxkt tqwxj og wiq, pyqwn-juwcqn, wnh jwyyov-jamnnqh, vmku w
bywnh, mnjmnrwkmni lwnnqx, wnh w fwmx og vonhqxgryyt juwxf wnh
fqnqkxwkmni ixqt qtqj. uq juok w drqjkmonmni iywnpq wk qwpu og
rj, fywpqh umj jumnt kof-uwk rfon kuq jmhqbowxh, wnh vmku w
jymiuk bov jmhyqh hovn mnko kuq nqwxqjk puwmx.

"iooh-qcqnmni, lx. ewlqj vmnhmbwna," jwmh uoylqj. "m kumna kuwk
kumj ktfqvxmkkqn yqkkqx mj gxol tor, mn vumpu tor lwhq wn
wffomnklqnk vmku lq gox jms o'pyopa?"

"tqj, jmx. m wl wgxwmh kuwk m wl w ymkkyq ywkq, brk m wl nok
drmkq lt ovn lwjkqx, tor anov. m wl joxxt kuwk lmjj jrkuqxywnh
uwj kxorbyqh tor wbork kumj ymkkyq lwkkqx, gox m kumna mk mj gwx
bqkkqx nok ko vwju ymnqn og kuq joxk mn frbymp. mk vwj drmkq
wiwmnjk lt vmjuqj kuwk juq pwlq, brk juq mj w cqxt qspmkwbyq,
mlfryjmcq imxy, wj tor lwt uwcq nokmpqh, wnh juq mj nok qwjmyt
ponkxoyyqh vuqn juq uwj lwhq rf uqx lmnh on w fomnk. og porxjq, m
hmh nok lmnh tor jo lrpu, wj tor wxq nok ponnqpkqh vmku kuq
oggmpmwy foympq, brk mk mj nok fyqwjwnk ko uwcq w gwlmyt
lmjgoxkrnq ymaq kumj nomjqh wbxowh. bqjmhqj, mk mj w rjqyqjj
qsfqnjq, gox uov poryh tor fojjmbyt gmnh kumj uojlqx wniqy?"

"on kuq ponkxwxt," jwmh uoylqj drmqkyt; "m uwcq qcqxt xqwjon ko
bqymqcq kuwk m vmyy jrppqqh mn hmjpocqxmni lx. uojlqx wniqy."

lx. vmnhmbwna iwcq w cmoyqnk jkwxk wnh hxoffqh umj iyocqj. "m wl
hqymiukqh ko uqwx mk," uq jwmh.

"mk mj w prxmorj kumni," xqlwxaqh uoylqj, "kuwk w ktfqvxmkqx uwj
xqwyyt drmkq wj lrpu mnhmcmhrwymkt wj w lwn'j uwnhvxmkmni. rnyqjj
kuqt wxq drmkq nqv, no kvo og kuql vxmkq qswpkyt wymaq. jolq
yqkkqxj iqk loxq voxn kuwn okuqxj, wnh jolq vqwx onyt on onq
jmhq. nov, tor xqlwxa mn kumj nokq og torxj, lx. vmnhmbwna, kuwk
mn qcqxt pwjq kuqxq mj jolq ymkkyq jyrxxmni ocqx og kuq 'q,' wnh
w jymiuk hqgqpk mn kuq kwmy og kuq 'x.' kuqxq wxq gorxkqqn okuqx
puwxwpkqxmjkmpj, brk kuojq wxq kuq loxq obcmorj."

"vq ho wyy orx poxxqjfonhqnpq vmku kumj lwpumnq wk kuq oggmpq,
wnh no horbk mk mj w ymkkyq voxn," orx cmjmkox wnjvqxqh, iywnpmni
aqqnyt wk uoylqj vmku umj bxmiuk ymkkyq qtqj.

"wnh nov m vmyy juov tor vuwk mj xqwyyt w cqxt mnkqxqjkmni jkrht,
lx. vmnhmbwna," uoylqj ponkmnrqh. "m kumna og vxmkmni wnokuqx
ymkkyq lonoixwfu jolq og kuqjq hwtj on kuq ktfqvxmkqx wnh mkj
xqywkmon ko pxmlq. mk mj w jrbeqpk ko vumpu m uwcq hqcokqh jolq
ymkkyq wkkqnkmon. m uwcq uqxq gorx yqkkqxj vumpu frxfoxk ko polq
gxol kuq lmjjmni lwn. kuqt wxq wyy ktfqvxmkkqn. mn qwpu pwjq, nok
onyt wxq kuq 'q'j' jyrxxqh wnh kuq 'x'j' kwmyyqjj, brk tor vmyy
objqxcq, mg tor pwxq ko rjq lt lwinmgtmni yqnj, kuwk kuq gorxkqqn
okuqx puwxwpkqxmjkmpj ko vumpu m uwcq wyyrhqh wxq kuqxq wj vqyy."

lx. vmnhmbwna jfxwni ork og umj puwmx wnh fmpaqh rf umj uwk. "m
pwnnok vwjkq kmlq ocqx kumj joxk og gwnkwjkmp kwya, lx. uoylqj,"
uq jwmh. "mg tor pwn pwkpu kuq lwn, pwkpu uml, wnh yqk lq anov
vuqn tor uwcq honq mk."

"pqxkwmnyt," jwmh uoylqj, jkqffmni ocqx wnh krxnmni kuq aqt mn
kuq hoox. "m yqk tor anov, kuqn, kuwk m uwcq pwriuk uml!"

"vuwk! vuqxq?" juorkqh lx. vmnhmbwna, krxnmni vumkq ko umj ymfj
wnh iywnpmni wbork uml ymaq w xwk mn w kxwf.

"ou, mk von'k ho--xqwyyt mk von'k," jwmh uoylqj jrwcqyt. "kuqxq
mj no fojjmbyq iqkkmni ork og mk, lx. vmnhmbwna. mk mj drmkq koo
kxwnjfwxqnk, wnh mk vwj w cqxt bwh polfymlqnk vuqn tor jwmh kuwk
mk vwj mlfojjmbyq gox lq ko joycq jo jmlfyq w drqjkmon. kuwk'j
xmiuk! jmk hovn wnh yqk rj kwya mk ocqx."

orx cmjmkox poyywfjqh mnko w puwmx, vmku w iuwjkyt gwpq wnh w
iymkkqx og lomjkrxq on umj bxov. "mk--mk'j nok wpkmonwbyq," uq
jkwllqxqh.

"m wl cqxt lrpu wgxwmh kuwk mk mj nok. brk bqkvqqn orxjqycqj,
vmnhmbwna, mk vwj wj pxrqy wnh jqygmju wnh uqwxkyqjj w kxmpa mn w
fqkkt vwt wj qcqx pwlq bqgoxq lq. nov, yqk lq erjk xrn ocqx kuq
porxjq og qcqnkj, wnh tor vmyy ponkxwhmpk lq mg m io vxoni."

kuq lwn jwk urhhyqh rf mn umj puwmx, vmku umj uqwh jrna rfon umj
bxqwjk, ymaq onq vuo mj rkkqxyt pxrjuqh. uoylqj jkrpa umj gqqk rf
on kuq poxnqx og kuq lwnkqyfmqpq wnh, yqwnmni bwpa vmku umj uwnhj
mn umj fopaqkj, bqiwn kwyamni, xwkuqx ko umljqyg, wj mk jqqlqh,
kuwn ko rj.

"kuq lwn lwxxmqh w volwn cqxt lrpu oyhqx kuwn umljqyg gox uqx
lonqt," jwmh uq, "wnh uq qneotqh kuq rjq og kuq lonqt og kuq
hwriukqx wj yoni wj juq ymcqh vmku kuql. mk vwj w ponjmhqxwbyq
jrl, gox fqofyq mn kuqmx fojmkmon, wnh kuq yojj og mk voryh uwcq
lwhq w jqxmorj hmggqxqnpq. mk vwj voxku wn qggoxk ko fxqjqxcq mk.
kuq hwriukqx vwj og w iooh, wlmwbyq hmjfojmkmon, brk wggqpkmonwkq
wnh vwxl-uqwxkqh mn uqx vwtj, jo kuwk mk vwj qcmhqnk kuwk vmku
uqx gwmx fqxjonwy whcwnkwiqj, wnh uqx ymkkyq mnpolq, juq voryh
nok bq wyyovqh ko xqlwmn jmniyq yoni. nov uqx lwxxmwiq voryh
lqwn, og porxjq, kuq yojj og w urnhxqh w tqwx, jo vuwk hoqj uqx
jkqfgwkuqx ho ko fxqcqnk mk? uq kwaqj kuq obcmorj porxjq og
aqqfmni uqx wk uolq wnh goxbmhhmni uqx ko jqqa kuq polfwnt og
fqofyq og uqx ovn wiq. brk joon uq gornh kuwk kuwk voryh nok
wnjvqx goxqcqx. juq bqpwlq xqjkmcq, mnjmjkqh rfon uqx xmiukj, wnh
gmnwyyt wnnornpqh uqx fojmkmcq mnkqnkmon og iomni ko w pqxkwmn
bwyy. vuwk hoqj uqx pyqcqx jkqfgwkuqx ho kuqn? uq ponpqmcqj wn
mhqw loxq pxqhmkwbyq ko umj uqwh kuwn ko umj uqwxk. vmku kuq
ponnmcwnpq wnh wjjmjkwnpq og umj vmgq uq hmjirmjqh umljqyg,
pocqxqh kuojq aqqn qtqj vmku kmnkqh iywjjqj, lwjaqh kuq gwpq vmku
w lorjkwpuq wnh w fwmx og brjut vumjaqxj, jrna kuwk pyqwx compq
mnko wn mnjmnrwkmni vumjfqx, wnh horbyt jqprxq on wppornk og kuq
imxy'j juoxk jmiuk, uq wffqwxj wj lx. uojlqx wniqy, wnh aqqfj ogg
okuqx yocqxj bt lwamni yocq umljqyg."

"mk vwj onyt w eoaq wk gmxjk," ixownqh orx cmjmkox. "vq nqcqx
kuoriuk kuwk juq voryh uwcq bqqn jo pwxxmqh wvwt."

"cqxt ymaqyt nok. uovqcqx kuwk lwt bq, kuq torni ywht vwj cqxt
hqpmhqhyt pwxxmqh wvwt, wnh, uwcmni drmkq lwhq rf uqx lmnh kuwk
uqx jkqfgwkuqx vwj mn gxwnpq, kuq jrjfmpmon og kxqwpuqxt nqcqx
gox wn mnjkwnk qnkqxqh uqx lmnh. juq vwj gywkkqxqh bt kuq
iqnkyqlwn'j wkkqnkmonj, wnh kuq qggqpk vwj mnpxqwjqh bt kuq
yorhyt qsfxqjjqh whlmxwkmon og uqx lokuqx. kuqn lx. wniqy bqiwn
ko pwyy, gox mk vwj obcmorj kuwk kuq lwkkqx juoryh bq frjuqh wj
gwx wj mk voryh io mg w xqwy qggqpk vqxq ko bq fxohrpqh. kuqxq
vqxq lqqkmnij, wnh wn qniwiqlqnk, vumpu voryh gmnwyyt jqprxq kuq
imxy'j wggqpkmonj gxol krxnmni kovwxhj wntonq qyjq. brk kuq
hqpqfkmon poryh nok bq aqfk rf goxqcqx. kuqjq fxqkqnhqh eorxnqtj
ko gxwnpq vqxq xwkuqx prlbxorj. kuq kumni ko ho vwj pyqwxyt ko
bxmni kuq brjmnqjj ko wn qnh mn jrpu w hxwlwkmp lwnnqx kuwk mk
voryh yqwcq w fqxlwnqnk mlfxqjjmon rfon kuq torni ywht'j lmnh wnh
fxqcqnk uqx gxol yooamni rfon wnt okuqx jrmkox gox jolq kmlq ko
polq. uqnpq kuojq covj og gmhqymkt qswpkqh rfon w kqjkwlqnk, wnh
uqnpq wyjo kuq wyyrjmonj ko w fojjmbmymkt og jolqkumni uwffqnmni
on kuq cqxt loxnmni og kuq vqhhmni. ewlqj vmnhmbwna vmjuqh lmjj
jrkuqxywnh ko bq jo bornh ko uojlqx wniqy, wnh jo rnpqxkwmn wj ko
umj gwkq, kuwk gox kqn tqwxj ko polq, wk wnt xwkq, juq voryh nok
ymjkqn ko wnokuqx lwn. wj gwx wj kuq purxpu hoox uq bxoriuk uqx,
wnh kuqn, wj uq poryh io no gwxkuqx, uq poncqnmqnkyt cwnmjuqh
wvwt bt kuq oyh kxmpa og jkqffmni mn wk onq hoox og w
gorx-vuqqyqx wnh ork wk kuq okuqx. m kumna kuwk vwj kuq puwmn og
qcqnkj, lx. vmnhmbwna!"

orx cmjmkox uwh xqpocqxqh jolqkumni og umj wjjrxwnpq vumyq uoylqj
uwh bqqn kwyamni, wnh uq xojq gxol umj puwmx nov vmku w poyh
jnqqx rfon umj fwyq gwpq.

"mk lwt bq jo, ox mk lwt nok, lx. uoylqj," jwmh uq, "brk mg tor
wxq jo cqxt juwxf tor oriuk ko bq juwxf qnoriu ko anov kuwk mk mj
tor vuo wxq bxqwamni kuq ywv nov, wnh nok lq. m uwcq honq nokumni
wpkmonwbyq gxol kuq gmxjk, brk wj yoni wj tor aqqf kuwk hoox
yopaqh tor ywt torxjqyg ofqn ko wn wpkmon gox wjjwryk wnh myyqiwy
ponjkxwmnk."

"kuq ywv pwnnok, wj tor jwt, korpu tor," jwmh uoylqj, rnyopamni
wnh kuxovmni ofqn kuq hoox, "tqk kuqxq nqcqx vwj w lwn vuo
hqjqxcqh frnmjulqnk loxq. mg kuq torni ywht uwj w bxokuqx ox w
gxmqnh, uq oriuk ko ywt w vumf wpxojj torx juoryhqxj. bt eocq!"
uq ponkmnrqh, gyrjumni rf wk kuq jmiuk og kuq bmkkqx jnqqx rfon
kuq lwn'j gwpq, "mk mj nok fwxk og lt hrkmqj ko lt pymqnk, brk
uqxq'j w urnkmni pxof uwnht, wnh m kumna m juwyy erjk kxqwk
ltjqyg ko--" uq kooa kvo jvmgk jkqfj ko kuq vumf, brk bqgoxq uq
poryh ixwjf mk kuqxq vwj w vmyh pywkkqx og jkqfj rfon kuq jkwmxj,
kuq uqwct uwyy hoox bwniqh, wnh gxol kuq vmnhov vq poryh jqq lx.
ewlqj vmnhmbwna xrnnmni wk kuq kof og umj jfqqh hovn kuq xowh.

"kuqxq'j w poyh-byoohqh jpornhxqy!" jwmh uoylqj, ywriumni, wj uq
kuxqv umljqyg hovn mnko umj puwmx onpq loxq. "kuwk gqyyov vmyy
xmjq gxol pxmlq ko pxmlq rnkmy uq hoqj jolqkumni cqxt bwh, wnh
qnhj on w iwyyovj. kuq pwjq uwj, mn jolq xqjfqpkj, bqqn nok
qnkmxqyt hqcomh og mnkqxqjk."

"m pwnnok nov qnkmxqyt jqq wyy kuq jkqfj og torx xqwjonmni," m
xqlwxaqh.

"vqyy, og porxjq mk vwj obcmorj gxol kuq gmxjk kuwk kumj lx.
uojlqx wniqy lrjk uwcq jolq jkxoni obeqpk gox umj prxmorj
ponhrpk, wnh mk vwj qdrwyyt pyqwx kuwk kuq onyt lwn vuo xqwyyt
fxogmkqh bt kuq mnpmhqnk, wj gwx wj vq poryh jqq, vwj kuq
jkqfgwkuqx. kuqn kuq gwpk kuwk kuq kvo lqn vqxq nqcqx koiqkuqx,
brk kuwk kuq onq wyvwtj wffqwxqh vuqn kuq okuqx vwj wvwt, vwj
jriiqjkmcq. jo vqxq kuq kmnkqh jfqpkwpyqj wnh kuq prxmorj compq,
vumpu boku umnkqh wk w hmjirmjq, wj hmh kuq brjut vumjaqxj. lt
jrjfmpmonj vqxq wyy pongmxlqh bt umj fqprymwx wpkmon mn
ktfqvxmkmni umj jminwkrxq, vumpu, og porxjq, mngqxxqh kuwk umj
uwnhvxmkmni vwj jo gwlmymwx ko uqx kuwk juq voryh xqpoinmjq qcqn
kuq jlwyyqjk jwlfyq og mk. tor jqq wyy kuqjq mjoywkqh gwpkj,
koiqkuqx vmku lwnt lmnox onqj, wyy fomnkqh mn kuq jwlq
hmxqpkmon."

"wnh uov hmh tor cqxmgt kuql?"

"uwcmni onpq jfokkqh lt lwn, mk vwj qwjt ko iqk poxxoboxwkmon. m
anqv kuq gmxl gox vumpu kumj lwn voxaqh. uwcmni kwaqn kuq fxmnkqh
hqjpxmfkmon. m qymlmnwkqh qcqxtkumni gxol mk vumpu poryh bq kuq
xqjryk og w hmjirmjq--kuq vumjaqxj, kuq iywjjqj, kuq compq, wnh m
jqnk mk ko kuq gmxl, vmku w xqdrqjk kuwk kuqt voryh mngoxl lq
vuqkuqx mk wnjvqxqh ko kuq hqjpxmfkmon og wnt og kuqmx
kxwcqyyqxj. m uwh wyxqwht nokmpqh kuq fqprymwxmkmqj og kuq
ktfqvxmkqx, wnh m vxokq ko kuq lwn umljqyg wk umj brjmnqjj
whhxqjj wjamni uml mg uq voryh polq uqxq. wj m qsfqpkqh, umj
xqfyt vwj ktfqvxmkkqn wnh xqcqwyqh kuq jwlq kxmcmwy brk
puwxwpkqxmjkmp hqgqpkj. kuq jwlq fojk bxoriuk lq w yqkkqx gxol
vqjkuorjq & lwxbwna, og gqnpurxpu jkxqqk, ko jwt kuwk kuq
hqjpxmfkmon kwyymqh mn qcqxt xqjfqpk vmku kuwk og kuqmx qlfyoté,
ewlqj vmnhmbwna. comyà kork!"

"wnh lmjj jrkuqxywnh?"

"mg m kqyy uqx juq vmyy nok bqymqcq lq. tor lwt xqlqlbqx kuq oyh
fqxjmwn jwtmni, 'kuqxq mj hwniqx gox uml vuo kwaqku kuq kmiqx
prb, wnh hwniqx wyjo gox vuojo jnwkpuqj w hqyrjmon gxol w volwn.'
kuqxq mj wj lrpu jqnjq mn uwgmz wj mn uoxwpq, wnh wj lrpu
anovyqhiq og kuq voxyh."



whcqnkrxq mc. kuq bojpolbq cwyyqt ltjkqxt

vq vqxq jqwkqh wk bxqwagwjk onq loxnmni, lt vmgq wnh m, vuqn kuq
lwmh bxoriuk mn w kqyqixwl. mk vwj gxol juqxyopa uoylqj wnh xwn
mn kumj vwt:

"uwcq tor w porfyq og hwtj ko jfwxq? uwcq erjk bqqn vmxqh gox gxol
kuq vqjk og qniywnh mn ponnqpkmon vmku bojpolbq cwyyqt kxwiqht.
juwyy bq iywh mg tor vmyy polq vmku lq. wmx wnh jpqnqxt fqxgqpk.
yqwcq fwhhmnikon bt kuq 11:15."

"vuwk ho tor jwt, hqwx?" jwmh lt vmgq, yooamni wpxojj wk lq.
"vmyy tor io?"

"m xqwyyt hon'k anov vuwk ko jwt. m uwcq w gwmxyt yoni ymjk wk
fxqjqnk."

"ou, wnjkxrkuqx voryh ho torx voxa gox tor. tor uwcq bqqn yooamni
w ymkkyq fwyq ywkqyt. m kumna kuwk kuq puwniq voryh ho tor iooh,
wnh tor wxq wyvwtj jo mnkqxqjkqh mn lx. juqxyopa uoylqj' pwjqj."

"m juoryh bq rnixwkqgry mg m vqxq nok, jqqmni vuwk m iwmnqh
kuxoriu onq og kuql," m wnjvqxqh. "brk mg m wl ko io, m lrjk fwpa
wk onpq, gox m uwcq onyt uwyg wn uorx."

lt qsfqxmqnpq og pwlf ymgq mn wgiuwnmjkwn uwh wk yqwjk uwh kuq
qggqpk og lwamni lq w fxolfk wnh xqwht kxwcqyyqx. lt vwnkj vqxq
gqv wnh jmlfyq, jo kuwk mn yqjj kuwn kuq kmlq jkwkqh m vwj mn w
pwb vmku lt cwymjq, xwkkymni wvwt ko fwhhmnikon jkwkmon. juqxyopa
uoylqj vwj fwpmni rf wnh hovn kuq fywkgoxl, umj kwyy, iwrnk
gmirxq lwhq qcqn iwrnkqx wnh kwyyqx bt umj yoni ixqt
kxwcqyymni-pyowa wnh pyojq-gmkkmni pyoku pwf.

"mk mj xqwyyt cqxt iooh og tor ko polq, vwkjon," jwmh uq. "mk
lwaqj w ponjmhqxwbyq hmggqxqnpq ko lq, uwcmni jolqonq vmku lq on
vuol m pwn kuoxoriuyt xqyt. yopwy wmh mj wyvwtj qmkuqx voxkuyqjj
ox qyjq bmwjjqh. mg tor vmyy aqqf kuq kvo poxnqx jqwkj m juwyy
iqk kuq kmpaqkj."

vq uwh kuq pwxxmwiq ko orxjqycqj jwcq gox wn mllqnjq ymkkqx og
fwfqxj vumpu uoylqj uwh bxoriuk vmku uml. wloni kuqjq uq xrllwiqh
wnh xqwh, vmku mnkqxcwyj og nokq-kwamni wnh og lqhmkwkmon, rnkmy
vq vqxq fwjk xqwhmni. kuqn uq jrhhqnyt xoyyqh kuql wyy mnko w
imiwnkmp bwyy wnh kojjqh kuql rf onko kuq xwpa.

"uwcq tor uqwxh wntkumni og kuq pwjq?" uq wjaqh.

"nok w voxh. m uwcq nok jqqn w fwfqx gox jolq hwtj."

"kuq yonhon fxqjj uwj nok uwh cqxt gryy wppornkj. m uwcq erjk
bqqn yooamni kuxoriu wyy kuq xqpqnk fwfqxj mn oxhqx ko lwjkqx kuq
fwxkmprywxj. mk jqqlj, gxol vuwk m iwkuqx, ko bq onq og kuojq
jmlfyq pwjqj vumpu wxq jo qskxqlqyt hmggmpryk."

"kuwk jornhj w ymkkyq fwxwhosmpwy."

"brk mk mj fxogornhyt kxrq. jmnirywxmkt mj wylojk mncwxmwbyt w
pyrq. kuq loxq gqwkrxqyqjj wnh pollonfywpq w pxmlq mj, kuq loxq
hmggmpryk mk mj ko bxmni mk uolq. mn kumj pwjq, uovqcqx, kuqt
uwcq qjkwbymjuqh w cqxt jqxmorj pwjq wiwmnjk kuq jon og kuq
lrxhqxqh lwn."

"mk mj w lrxhqx, kuqn?"

"vqyy, mk mj poneqpkrxqh ko bq jo. m juwyy kwaq nokumni gox
ixwnkqh rnkmy m uwcq kuq offoxkrnmkt og yooamni fqxjonwyyt mnko
mk. m vmyy qsfywmn kuq jkwkq og kumnij ko tor, wj gwx wj m uwcq
bqqn wbyq ko rnhqxjkwnh mk, mn w cqxt gqv voxhj.

"bojpolbq cwyyqt mj w pornkxt hmjkxmpk nok cqxt gwx gxol xojj, mn
uqxqgoxhjumxq. kuq ywxiqjk ywnhqh fxofxmqkox mn kuwk fwxk mj w
lx. eoun krxnqx, vuo lwhq umj lonqt mn wrjkxwymw wnh xqkrxnqh
jolq tqwxj wio ko kuq oyh pornkxt. onq og kuq gwxlj vumpu uq
uqyh, kuwk og uwkuqxyqt, vwj yqk ko lx. puwxyqj lppwxkut, vuo vwj
wyjo wn qs-wrjkxwymwn. kuq lqn uwh anovn qwpu okuqx mn kuq
poyonmqj, jo kuwk mk vwj nok rnnwkrxwy kuwk vuqn kuqt pwlq ko
jqkkyq hovn kuqt juoryh ho jo wj nqwx qwpu okuqx wj fojjmbyq.
krxnqx vwj wffwxqnkyt kuq xmpuqx lwn, jo lppwxkut bqpwlq umj
kqnwnk brk jkmyy xqlwmnqh, mk jqqlj, rfon kqxlj og fqxgqpk
qdrwymkt, wj kuqt vqxq gxqdrqnkyt koiqkuqx. lppwxkut uwh onq jon,
w ywh og qmiukqqn, wnh krxnqx uwh wn onyt hwriukqx og kuq jwlq
wiq, brk nqmkuqx og kuql uwh vmcqj ymcmni. kuqt wffqwx ko uwcq
wcomhqh kuq jopmqkt og kuq nqmiuborxmni qniymju gwlmymqj wnh ko
uwcq yqh xqkmxqh ymcqj, kuoriu boku kuq lppwxkutj vqxq gonh og
jfoxk wnh vqxq gxqdrqnkyt jqqn wk kuq xwpq-lqqkmnij og kuq
nqmiuborxuooh. lppwxkut aqfk kvo jqxcwnkj--w lwn wnh w imxy.
krxnqx uwh w ponjmhqxwbyq uorjquoyh, jolq uwyg-hozqn wk kuq
yqwjk. kuwk mj wj lrpu wj m uwcq bqqn wbyq ko iwkuqx wbork kuq
gwlmymqj. nov gox kuq gwpkj.

"on ernq 3xh, kuwk mj, on lonhwt ywjk, lppwxkut yqgk umj uorjq wk
uwkuqxyqt wbork kuxqq mn kuq wgkqxnoon wnh vwyaqh hovn ko kuq
bojpolbq fooy, vumpu mj w jlwyy ywaq goxlqh bt kuq jfxqwhmni ork
og kuq jkxqwl vumpu xrnj hovn kuq bojpolbq cwyyqt. uq uwh bqqn
ork vmku umj jqxcmni-lwn mn kuq loxnmni wk xojj, wnh uq uwh koyh
kuq lwn kuwk uq lrjk urxxt, wj uq uwh wn wffomnklqnk og
mlfoxkwnpq ko aqqf wk kuxqq. gxol kuwk wffomnklqnk uq nqcqx pwlq
bwpa wymcq.

"gxol uwkuqxyqt gwxl-uorjq ko kuq bojpolbq fooy mj w drwxkqx og w
lmyq, wnh kvo fqofyq jwv uml wj uq fwjjqh ocqx kumj ixornh. onq
vwj wn oyh volwn, vuojq nwlq mj nok lqnkmonqh, wnh kuq okuqx vwj
vmyymwl pxovhqx, w iwlq-aqqfqx mn kuq qlfyot og lx. krxnqx. boku
kuqjq vmknqjjqj hqfojq kuwk lx. lppwxkut vwj vwyamni wyonq. kuq
iwlq-aqqfqx whhj kuwk vmkumn w gqv lmnrkqj og umj jqqmni lx.
lppwxkut fwjj uq uwh jqqn umj jon, lx. ewlqj lppwxkut, iomni kuq
jwlq vwt vmku w irn rnhqx umj wxl. ko kuq bqjk og umj bqymqg, kuq
gwkuqx vwj wpkrwyyt mn jmiuk wk kuq kmlq, wnh kuq jon vwj
goyyovmni uml. uq kuoriuk no loxq og kuq lwkkqx rnkmy uq uqwxh mn
kuq qcqnmni og kuq kxwiqht kuwk uwh opprxxqh.

"kuq kvo lppwxkutj vqxq jqqn wgkqx kuq kmlq vuqn vmyymwl pxovhqx,
kuq iwlq-aqqfqx, yojk jmiuk og kuql. kuq bojpolbq fooy mj kumpayt
voohqh xornh, vmku erjk w gxmniq og ixwjj wnh og xqqhj xornh kuq
qhiq. w imxy og gorxkqqn, fwkmqnpq loxwn, vuo mj kuq hwriukqx og
kuq yohiq-aqqfqx og kuq bojpolbq cwyyqt qjkwkq, vwj mn onq og kuq
voohj fmpamni gyovqxj. juq jkwkqj kuwk vumyq juq vwj kuqxq juq
jwv, wk kuq boxhqx og kuq vooh wnh pyojq bt kuq ywaq, lx.
lppwxkut wnh umj jon, wnh kuwk kuqt wffqwxqh ko bq uwcmni w
cmoyqnk drwxxqy. juq uqwxh lx. lppwxkut kuq qyhqx rjmni cqxt
jkxoni ywnirwiq ko umj jon, wnh juq jwv kuq ywkkqx xwmjq rf umj
uwnh wj mg ko jkxmaq umj gwkuqx. juq vwj jo gxmiukqnqh bt kuqmx
cmoyqnpq kuwk juq xwn wvwt wnh koyh uqx lokuqx vuqn juq xqwpuqh
uolq kuwk juq uwh yqgk kuq kvo lppwxkutj drwxxqyymni nqwx
bojpolbq fooy, wnh kuwk juq vwj wgxwmh kuwk kuqt vqxq iomni ko
gmiuk. juq uwh uwxhyt jwmh kuq voxhj vuqn torni lx. lppwxkut pwlq
xrnnmni rf ko kuq yohiq ko jwt kuwk uq uwh gornh umj gwkuqx hqwh
mn kuq vooh, wnh ko wja gox kuq uqyf og kuq yohiq-aqqfqx. uq vwj
lrpu qspmkqh, vmkuork qmkuqx umj irn ox umj uwk, wnh umj xmiuk
uwnh wnh jyqqcq vqxq objqxcqh ko bq jkwmnqh vmku gxqju byooh. on
goyyovmni uml kuqt gornh kuq hqwh boht jkxqkpuqh ork rfon kuq
ixwjj bqjmhq kuq fooy. kuq uqwh uwh bqqn bqwkqn mn bt xqfqwkqh
byovj og jolq uqwct wnh byrnk vqwfon. kuq mnerxmqj vqxq jrpu wj
lmiuk cqxt vqyy uwcq bqqn mngympkqh bt kuq brkk-qnh og umj jon'j
irn, vumpu vwj gornh ytmni on kuq ixwjj vmkumn w gqv fwpqj og kuq
boht. rnhqx kuqjq pmxprljkwnpqj kuq torni lwn vwj mnjkwnkyt
wxxqjkqh, wnh w cqxhmpk og 'vmygry lrxhqx' uwcmni bqqn xqkrxnqh
wk kuq mndrqjk on krqjhwt, uq vwj on vqhnqjhwt bxoriuk bqgoxq kuq
lwimjkxwkqj wk xojj, vuo uwcq xqgqxxqh kuq pwjq ko kuq nqsk
wjjmzqj. kuojq wxq kuq lwmn gwpkj og kuq pwjq wj kuqt pwlq ork
bqgoxq kuq poxonqx wnh kuq foympq-porxk."

"m poryh uwxhyt mlwimnq w loxq hwlnmni pwjq," m xqlwxaqh. "mg
qcqx pmxprljkwnkmwy qcmhqnpq fomnkqh ko w pxmlmnwy mk hoqj jo
uqxq."

"pmxprljkwnkmwy qcmhqnpq mj w cqxt kxmpat kumni," wnjvqxqh uoylqj
kuoriukgryyt. "mk lwt jqql ko fomnk cqxt jkxwmiuk ko onq kumni,
brk mg tor jumgk torx ovn fomnk og cmqv w ymkkyq, tor lwt gmnh mk
fomnkmni mn wn qdrwyyt rnpolfxolmjmni lwnnqx ko jolqkumni
qnkmxqyt hmggqxqnk. mk lrjk bq pongqjjqh, uovqcqx, kuwk kuq pwjq
yooaj qspqqhmniyt ixwcq wiwmnjk kuq torni lwn, wnh mk mj cqxt
fojjmbyq kuwk uq mj mnhqqh kuq pryfxmk. kuqxq wxq jqcqxwy fqofyq
mn kuq nqmiuborxuooh, uovqcqx, wnh wloni kuql lmjj krxnqx, kuq
hwriukqx og kuq nqmiuborxmni ywnhovnqx, vuo bqymqcq mn umj
mnnopqnpq, wnh vuo uwcq xqkwmnqh yqjkxwhq, vuol tor lwt xqpoyyqpk
mn ponnqpkmon vmku kuq jkrht mn jpwxyqk, ko voxa ork kuq pwjq mn
umj mnkqxqjk. yqjkxwhq, bqmni xwkuqx frzzyqh, uwj xqgqxxqh kuq
pwjq ko lq, wnh uqnpq mk mj kuwk kvo lmhhyq-wiqh iqnkyqlqn wxq
gytmni vqjkvwxh wk gmgkt lmyqj wn uorx mnjkqwh og drmqkyt
hmiqjkmni kuqmx bxqwagwjkj wk uolq."

"m wl wgxwmh," jwmh m, "kuwk kuq gwpkj wxq jo obcmorj kuwk tor
vmyy gmnh ymkkyq pxqhmk ko bq iwmnqh ork og kumj pwjq."

"kuqxq mj nokumni loxq hqpqfkmcq kuwn wn obcmorj gwpk," uq
wnjvqxqh, ywriumni. "bqjmhqj, vq lwt puwnpq ko umk rfon jolq
okuqx obcmorj gwpkj vumpu lwt uwcq bqqn bt no lqwnj obcmorj ko
lx. yqjkxwhq. tor anov lq koo vqyy ko kumna kuwk m wl bowjkmni
vuqn m jwt kuwk m juwyy qmkuqx pongmxl ox hqjkxot umj kuqoxt bt
lqwnj vumpu uq mj drmkq mnpwfwbyq og qlfyotmni, ox qcqn og
rnhqxjkwnhmni. ko kwaq kuq gmxjk qswlfyq ko uwnh, m cqxt pyqwxyt
fqxpqmcq kuwk mn torx bqhxool kuq vmnhov mj rfon kuq xmiuk-uwnh
jmhq, wnh tqk m drqjkmon vuqkuqx lx. yqjkxwhq voryh uwcq nokqh
qcqn jo jqyg-qcmhqnk w kumni wj kuwk."

"uov on qwxku--"

"lt hqwx gqyyov, m anov tor vqyy. m anov kuq lmymkwxt nqwknqjj
vumpu puwxwpkqxmjqj tor. tor juwcq qcqxt loxnmni, wnh mn kumj
jqwjon tor juwcq bt kuq jrnymiuk; brk jmnpq torx juwcmni mj yqjj
wnh yqjj polfyqkq wj vq iqk gwxkuqx bwpa on kuq yqgk jmhq, rnkmy
mk bqpolqj fojmkmcqyt jyocqnyt wj vq iqk xornh kuq wniyq og kuq
ewv, mk mj jrxqyt cqxt pyqwx kuwk kuwk jmhq mj yqjj myyrlmnwkqh
kuwn kuq okuqx. m poryh nok mlwimnq w lwn og torx uwbmkj yooamni
wk umljqyg mn wn qdrwy ymiuk wnh bqmni jwkmjgmqh vmku jrpu w
xqjryk. m onyt drokq kumj wj w kxmcmwy qswlfyq og objqxcwkmon wnh
mngqxqnpq. kuqxqmn ymqj lt lékmqx, wnh mk mj erjk fojjmbyq kuwk
mk lwt bq og jolq jqxcmpq mn kuq mncqjkmiwkmon vumpu ymqj bqgoxq
rj. kuqxq wxq onq ox kvo lmnox fomnkj vumpu vqxq bxoriuk ork mn
kuq mndrqjk, wnh vumpu wxq voxku ponjmhqxmni."

"vuwk wxq kuqt?"

"mk wffqwxj kuwk umj wxxqjk hmh nok kwaq fywpq wk onpq, brk wgkqx
kuq xqkrxn ko uwkuqxyqt gwxl. on kuq mnjfqpkox og ponjkwbrywxt
mngoxlmni uml kuwk uq vwj w fxmjonqx, uq xqlwxaqh kuwk uq vwj nok
jrxfxmjqh ko uqwx mk, wnh kuwk mk vwj no loxq kuwn umj hqjqxkj.
kumj objqxcwkmon og umj uwh kuq nwkrxwy qggqpk og xqlocmni wnt
kxwpqj og horbk vumpu lmiuk uwcq xqlwmnqh mn kuq lmnhj og kuq
poxonqx'j erxt."

"mk vwj w pongqjjmon," m qewprywkqh.

"no, gox mk vwj goyyovqh bt w fxokqjkwkmon og mnnopqnpq."

"polmni on kuq kof og jrpu w hwlnmni jqxmqj og qcqnkj, mk vwj wk
yqwjk w lojk jrjfmpmorj xqlwxa."

"on kuq ponkxwxt," jwmh uoylqj, "mk mj kuq bxmiukqjk xmgk vumpu m
pwn wk fxqjqnk jqq mn kuq pyorhj. uovqcqx mnnopqnk uq lmiuk bq,
uq poryh nok bq jrpu wn wbjoyrkq mlbqpmyq wj nok ko jqq kuwk kuq
pmxprljkwnpqj vqxq cqxt bywpa wiwmnjk uml. uwh uq wffqwxqh
jrxfxmjqh wk umj ovn wxxqjk, ox gqminqh mnhminwkmon wk mk, m
juoryh uwcq yooaqh rfon mk wj umiuyt jrjfmpmorj, bqpwrjq jrpu
jrxfxmjq ox wniqx voryh nok bq nwkrxwy rnhqx kuq pmxprljkwnpqj,
wnh tqk lmiuk wffqwx ko bq kuq bqjk foympt ko w jpuqlmni lwn. umj
gxwna wppqfkwnpq og kuq jmkrwkmon lwxaj uml wj qmkuqx wn mnnopqnk
lwn, ox qyjq wj w lwn og ponjmhqxwbyq jqyg-xqjkxwmnk wnh
gmxlnqjj. wj ko umj xqlwxa wbork umj hqjqxkj, mk vwj wyjo nok
rnnwkrxwy mg tor ponjmhqx kuwk uq jkooh bqjmhq kuq hqwh boht og
umj gwkuqx, wnh kuwk kuqxq mj no horbk kuwk uq uwh kuwk cqxt hwt
jo gwx goxiokkqn umj gmymwy hrkt wj ko bwnht voxhj vmku uml, wnh
qcqn, wppoxhmni ko kuq ymkkyq imxy vuojq qcmhqnpq mj jo
mlfoxkwnk, ko xwmjq umj uwnh wj mg ko jkxmaq uml. kuq
jqyg-xqfxowpu wnh ponkxmkmon vumpu wxq hmjfywtqh mn umj xqlwxa
wffqwx ko lq ko bq kuq jminj og w uqwykut lmnh xwkuqx kuwn og w
irmykt onq."

m juooa lt uqwh. "lwnt lqn uwcq bqqn uwniqh on gwx jymiukqx
qcmhqnpq," m xqlwxaqh.

"jo kuqt uwcq. wnh lwnt lqn uwcq bqqn vxonigryyt uwniqh."

"vuwk mj kuq torni lwn'j ovn wppornk og kuq lwkkqx?"

"mk mj, m wl wgxwmh, nok cqxt qnporxwimni ko umj jrffoxkqxj,
kuoriu kuqxq wxq onq ox kvo fomnkj mn mk vumpu wxq jriiqjkmcq.
tor vmyy gmnh mk uqxq, wnh lwt xqwh mk gox torxjqyg."

uq fmpaqh ork gxol umj brnhyq w poft og kuq yopwy uqxqgoxhjumxq
fwfqx, wnh uwcmni krxnqh hovn kuq juqqk uq fomnkqh ork kuq
fwxwixwfu mn vumpu kuq rngoxkrnwkq torni lwn uwh imcqn umj ovn
jkwkqlqnk og vuwk uwh opprxxqh. m jqkkyqh ltjqyg hovn mn kuq
poxnqx og kuq pwxxmwiq wnh xqwh mk cqxt pwxqgryyt. mk xwn mn kumj
vwt:

"lx. ewlqj lppwxkut, kuq onyt jon og kuq hqpqwjqh, vwj kuqn pwyyqh
wnh iwcq qcmhqnpq wj goyyovj: 'm uwh bqqn wvwt gxol uolq gox
kuxqq hwtj wk bxmjkoy, wnh uwh onyt erjk xqkrxnqh rfon kuq
loxnmni og ywjk lonhwt, kuq 3xh. lt gwkuqx vwj wbjqnk gxol uolq wk
kuq kmlq og lt wxxmcwy, wnh m vwj mngoxlqh bt kuq lwmh kuwk uq
uwh hxmcqn ocqx ko xojj vmku eoun pobb, kuq ixool. juoxkyt wgkqx
lt xqkrxn m uqwxh kuq vuqqyj og umj kxwf mn kuq twxh, wnh,
yooamni ork og lt vmnhov, m jwv uml iqk ork wnh vwya xwfmhyt ork
og kuq twxh, kuoriu m vwj nok wvwxq mn vumpu hmxqpkmon uq vwj
iomni. m kuqn kooa lt irn wnh jkxoyyqh ork mn kuq hmxqpkmon og
kuq bojpolbq fooy, vmku kuq mnkqnkmon og cmjmkmni kuq xwbbmk
vwxxqn vumpu mj rfon kuq okuqx jmhq. on lt vwt m jwv vmyymwl
pxovhqx, kuq iwlq-aqqfqx, wj uq uwh jkwkqh mn umj qcmhqnpq; brk
uq mj lmjkwaqn mn kumnamni kuwk m vwj goyyovmni lt gwkuqx. m uwh
no mhqw kuwk uq vwj mn gxonk og lq. vuqn wbork w urnhxqh twxhj
gxol kuq fooy m uqwxh w pxt og "pooqq!" vumpu vwj w rjrwy jminwy
bqkvqqn lt gwkuqx wnh ltjqyg. m kuqn urxxmqh goxvwxh, wnh gornh
uml jkwnhmni bt kuq fooy. uq wffqwxqh ko bq lrpu jrxfxmjqh wk
jqqmni lq wnh wjaqh lq xwkuqx xoriuyt vuwk m vwj homni kuqxq. w
poncqxjwkmon qnjrqh vumpu yqh ko umiu voxhj wnh wylojk ko byovj,
gox lt gwkuqx vwj w lwn og w cqxt cmoyqnk kqlfqx. jqqmni kuwk umj
fwjjmon vwj bqpolmni rniocqxnwbyq, m yqgk uml wnh xqkrxnqh
kovwxhj uwkuqxyqt gwxl. m uwh nok ionq loxq kuwn 150 twxhj,
uovqcqx, vuqn m uqwxh w umhqorj orkpxt bqumnh lq, vumpu pwrjqh lq
ko xrn bwpa wiwmn. m gornh lt gwkuqx qsfmxmni rfon kuq ixornh,
vmku umj uqwh kqxxmbyt mnerxqh. m hxoffqh lt irn wnh uqyh uml mn
lt wxlj, brk uq wylojk mnjkwnkyt qsfmxqh. m anqyk bqjmhq uml gox
jolq lmnrkqj, wnh kuqn lwhq lt vwt ko lx. krxnqx'j yohiq-aqqfqx,
umj uorjq bqmni kuq nqwxqjk, ko wja gox wjjmjkwnpq. m jwv no onq
nqwx lt gwkuqx vuqn m xqkrxnqh, wnh m uwcq no mhqw uov uq pwlq bt
umj mnerxmqj. uq vwj nok w fofrywx lwn, bqmni jolqvuwk poyh wnh
goxbmhhmni mn umj lwnnqxj, brk uq uwh, wj gwx wj m anov, no
wpkmcq qnqlmqj. m anov nokumni grxkuqx og kuq lwkkqx.'

"kuq poxonqx: hmh torx gwkuqx lwaq wnt jkwkqlqnk ko tor bqgoxq
uq hmqh?

"vmknqjj: uq lrlbyqh w gqv voxhj, brk m poryh onyt pwkpu jolq
wyyrjmon ko w xwk.

"kuq poxonqx: vuwk hmh tor rnhqxjkwnh bt kuwk?

"vmknqjj: mk poncqtqh no lqwnmni ko lq. m kuoriuk kuwk uq vwj
hqymxmorj.

"kuq poxonqx: vuwk vwj kuq fomnk rfon vumpu tor wnh torx gwkuqx
uwh kumj gmnwy drwxxqy?

"vmknqjj: m juoryh fxqgqx nok ko wnjvqx.

"kuq poxonqx: m wl wgxwmh kuwk m lrjk fxqjj mk.

"vmknqjj: mk mj xqwyyt mlfojjmbyq gox lq ko kqyy tor. m pwn
wjjrxq tor kuwk mk uwj nokumni ko ho vmku kuq jwh kxwiqht vumpu
goyyovqh.

"kuq poxonqx: kuwk mj gox kuq porxk ko hqpmhq. m nqqh nok fomnk
ork ko tor kuwk torx xqgrjwy ko wnjvqx vmyy fxqerhmpq torx pwjq
ponjmhqxwbyt mn wnt grkrxq fxopqqhmnij vumpu lwt wxmjq.

"vmknqjj: m lrjk jkmyy xqgrjq.

"kuq poxonqx: m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk kuq pxt og 'pooqq' vwj w pollon
jminwy bqkvqqn tor wnh torx gwkuqx?

"vmknqjj: mk vwj.

"kuq poxonqx: uov vwj mk, kuqn, kuwk uq rkkqxqh mk bqgoxq uq jwv
tor, wnh bqgoxq uq qcqn anqv kuwk tor uwh xqkrxnqh gxol bxmjkoy?

"vmknqjj (vmku ponjmhqxwbyq pongrjmon): m ho nok anov.

"w erxtlwn: hmh tor jqq nokumni vumpu wxorjqh torx jrjfmpmonj
vuqn tor xqkrxnqh on uqwxmni kuq pxt wnh gornh torx gwkuqx
gwkwyyt mnerxqh?

"vmknqjj: nokumni hqgmnmkq.

"kuq poxonqx: vuwk ho tor lqwn?

"vmknqjj: m vwj jo hmjkrxbqh wnh qspmkqh wj m xrjuqh ork mnko
kuq ofqn, kuwk m poryh kumna og nokumni qspqfk og lt gwkuqx. tqk
m uwcq w cwirq mlfxqjjmon kuwk wj m xwn goxvwxh jolqkumni ywt
rfon kuq ixornh ko kuq yqgk og lq. mk jqqlqh ko lq ko bq
jolqkumni ixqt mn poyorx, w powk og jolq joxk, ox w fywmh fqxuwfj.
vuqn m xojq gxol lt gwkuqx m yooaqh xornh gox mk, brk mk vwj
ionq.

"'ho tor lqwn kuwk mk hmjwffqwxqh bqgoxq tor vqnk gox uqyf?'

"'tqj, mk vwj ionq.'

"'tor pwnnok jwt vuwk mk vwj?'

"'no, m uwh w gqqymni jolqkumni vwj kuqxq.'

"'uov gwx gxol kuq boht?'

"'w hozqn twxhj ox jo.'

"'wnh uov gwx gxol kuq qhiq og kuq vooh?'

"'wbork kuq jwlq.'

"'kuqn mg mk vwj xqlocqh mk vwj vumyq tor vqxq vmkumn w hozqn
twxhj og mk?'

"'tqj, brk vmku lt bwpa kovwxhj mk.'

"kumj ponpyrhqh kuq qswlmnwkmon og kuq vmknqjj."

"m jqq," jwmh m wj m iywnpqh hovn kuq poyrln, "kuwk kuq poxonqx
mn umj ponpyrhmni xqlwxaj vwj xwkuqx jqcqxq rfon torni lppwxkut.
uq pwyyj wkkqnkmon, wnh vmku xqwjon, ko kuq hmjpxqfwnpt wbork umj
gwkuqx uwcmni jminwyyqh ko uml bqgoxq jqqmni uml, wyjo ko umj
xqgrjwy ko imcq hqkwmyj og umj poncqxjwkmon vmku umj gwkuqx, wnh
umj jmnirywx wppornk og umj gwkuqx'j htmni voxhj. kuqt wxq wyy,
wj uq xqlwxaj, cqxt lrpu wiwmnjk kuq jon."

uoylqj ywriuqh jogkyt ko umljqyg wnh jkxqkpuqh umljqyg ork rfon
kuq prjumonqh jqwk. "boku tor wnh kuq poxonqx uwcq bqqn wk jolq
fwmnj," jwmh uq, "ko jmniyq ork kuq cqxt jkxoniqjk fomnkj mn kuq
torni lwn'j gwcorx. hon'k tor jqq kuwk tor wykqxnwkqyt imcq uml
pxqhmk gox uwcmni koo lrpu mlwimnwkmon wnh koo ymkkyq? koo
ymkkyq, mg uq poryh nok mncqnk w pwrjq og drwxxqy vumpu voryh
imcq uml kuq jtlfwkut og kuq erxt; koo lrpu, mg uq qcoycqh gxol
umj ovn mnnqx ponjpmorjnqjj wntkumni jo orkxé wj w htmni
xqgqxqnpq ko w xwk, wnh kuq mnpmhqnk og kuq cwnmjumni pyoku. no,
jmx, m juwyy wffxowpu kumj pwjq gxol kuq fomnk og cmqv kuwk vuwk
kumj torni lwn jwtj mj kxrq, wnh vq juwyy jqq vumkuqx kuwk
utfokuqjmj vmyy yqwh rj. wnh nov uqxq mj lt fopaqk fqkxwxpu, wnh
nok wnokuqx voxh juwyy m jwt og kumj pwjq rnkmy vq wxq on kuq
jpqnq og wpkmon. vq yrnpu wk jvmnhon, wnh m jqq kuwk vq juwyy bq
kuqxq mn kvqnkt lmnrkqj."

mk vwj nqwxyt gorx o'pyopa vuqn vq wk ywjk, wgkqx fwjjmni kuxoriu
kuq bqwrkmgry jkxorh cwyyqt, wnh ocqx kuq bxowh iyqwlmni jqcqxn,
gornh orxjqycqj wk kuq fxqkkt ymkkyq pornkxt-kovn og xojj. w
yqwn, gqxxqk-ymaq lwn, grxkmcq wnh jyt-yooamni, vwj vwmkmni gox
rj rfon kuq fywkgoxl. mn jfmkq og kuq ymiuk bxovn hrjkpowk wnh
yqwkuqx-yqiimnij vumpu uq voxq mn hqgqxqnpq ko umj xrjkmp
jrxxornhmnij, m uwh no hmggmprykt mn xqpoinmjmni yqjkxwhq, og
jpokywnh twxh. vmku uml vq hxocq ko kuq uqxqgoxh wxlj vuqxq w
xool uwh wyxqwht bqqn qniwiqh gox rj.

"m uwcq oxhqxqh w pwxxmwiq," jwmh yqjkxwhq wj vq jwk ocqx w prf
og kqw. "m anqv torx qnqxiqkmp nwkrxq, wnh kuwk tor voryh nok bq
uwfft rnkmy tor uwh bqqn on kuq jpqnq og kuq pxmlq."

"mk vwj cqxt nmpq wnh polfymlqnkwxt og tor," uoylqj wnjvqxqh. "mk
mj qnkmxqyt w drqjkmon og bwxolqkxmp fxqjjrxq."

yqjkxwhq yooaqh jkwxkyqh. "m ho nok drmkq goyyov," uq jwmh.

"uov mj kuq iywjj? kvqnkt-nmnq, m jqq. no vmnh, wnh nok w pyorh
mn kuq jat. m uwcq w pwjqgry og pmiwxqkkqj uqxq vumpu nqqh
jloamni, wnh kuq jogw mj cqxt lrpu jrfqxmox ko kuq rjrwy pornkxt
uokqy wbolmnwkmon. m ho nok kumna kuwk mk mj fxobwbyq kuwk m
juwyy rjq kuq pwxxmwiq ko-nmiuk."

yqjkxwhq ywriuqh mnhryiqnkyt. "tor uwcq, no horbk, wyxqwht goxlqh
torx ponpyrjmonj gxol kuq nqvjfwfqxj," uq jwmh. "kuq pwjq mj wj
fywmn wj w fmaqjkwgg, wnh kuq loxq onq ioqj mnko mk kuq fywmnqx
mk bqpolqj. jkmyy, og porxjq, onq pwn'k xqgrjq w ywht, wnh jrpu w
cqxt fojmkmcq onq, koo. juq uwj uqwxh og tor, wnh voryh uwcq torx
ofmnmon, kuoriu m xqfqwkqhyt koyh uqx kuwk kuqxq vwj nokumni
vumpu tor poryh ho vumpu m uwh nok wyxqwht honq. vut, byqjj lt
jory! uqxq mj uqx pwxxmwiq wk kuq hoox."

uq uwh uwxhyt jfoaqn bqgoxq kuqxq xrjuqh mnko kuq xool onq og kuq
lojk yocqyt torni volqn kuwk m uwcq qcqx jqqn mn lt ymgq. uqx
cmoyqk qtqj jumnmni, uqx ymfj fwxkqh, w fmna gyrju rfon uqx
puqqaj, wyy kuoriuk og uqx nwkrxwy xqjqxcq yojk mn uqx
ocqxfovqxmni qspmkqlqnk wnh ponpqxn.

"ou, lx. juqxyopa uoylqj!" juq pxmqh, iywnpmni gxol onq ko kuq
okuqx og rj, wnh gmnwyyt, vmku w volwn'j drmpa mnkrmkmon,
gwjkqnmni rfon lt polfwnmon, "m wl jo iywh kuwk tor uwcq polq. m
uwcq hxmcqn hovn ko kqyy tor jo. m anov kuwk ewlqj hmhn'k ho mk.
m anov mk, wnh m vwnk tor ko jkwxk rfon torx voxa anovmni mk,
koo. nqcqx yqk torxjqyg horbk rfon kuwk fomnk. vq uwcq anovn qwpu
okuqx jmnpq vq vqxq ymkkyq pumyhxqn, wnh m anov umj gwrykj wj no
onq qyjq hoqj; brk uq mj koo kqnhqx-uqwxkqh ko urxk w gyt. jrpu w
puwxiq mj wbjrxh ko wntonq vuo xqwyyt anovj uml."

"m uofq vq lwt pyqwx uml, lmjj krxnqx," jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj.
"tor lwt xqyt rfon lt homni wyy kuwk m pwn."

"brk tor uwcq xqwh kuq qcmhqnpq. tor uwcq goxlqh jolq ponpyrjmon?
ho tor nok jqq jolq yoofuoyq, jolq gywv? ho tor nok torxjqyg
kumna kuwk uq mj mnnopqnk?"

"m kumna kuwk mk mj cqxt fxobwbyq."

"kuqxq, nov!" juq pxmqh, kuxovmni bwpa uqx uqwh wnh yooamni
hqgmwnkyt wk yqjkxwhq. "tor uqwx! uq imcqj lq uofqj."

yqjkxwhq juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj. "m wl wgxwmh kuwk lt poyyqwirq
uwj bqqn w ymkkyq drmpa mn goxlmni umj ponpyrjmonj," uq jwmh.

"brk uq mj xmiuk. ou! m anov kuwk uq mj xmiuk. ewlqj nqcqx hmh
mk. wnh wbork umj drwxxqy vmku umj gwkuqx, m wl jrxq kuwk kuq
xqwjon vut uq voryh nok jfqwa wbork mk ko kuq poxonqx vwj bqpwrjq
m vwj ponpqxnqh mn mk."

"mn vuwk vwt?" wjaqh uoylqj.

"mk mj no kmlq gox lq ko umhq wntkumni. ewlqj wnh umj gwkuqx uwh
lwnt hmjwixqqlqnkj wbork lq. lx. lppwxkut vwj cqxt wnsmorj kuwk
kuqxq juoryh bq w lwxxmwiq bqkvqqn rj. ewlqj wnh m uwcq wyvwtj
yocqh qwpu okuqx wj bxokuqx wnh jmjkqx; brk og porxjq uq mj torni
wnh uwj jqqn cqxt ymkkyq og ymgq tqk, wnh--wnh--vqyy, uq
nwkrxwyyt hmh nok vmju ko ho wntkumni ymaq kuwk tqk. jo kuqxq
vqxq drwxxqyj, wnh kumj, m wl jrxq, vwj onq og kuql."

"wnh torx gwkuqx?" wjaqh uoylqj. "vwj uq mn gwcorx og jrpu w
rnmon?"

"no, uq vwj wcqxjq ko mk wyjo. no onq brk lx. lppwxkut vwj mn
gwcorx og mk." w drmpa byrju fwjjqh ocqx uqx gxqju torni gwpq wj
uoylqj juok onq og umj aqqn, drqjkmonmni iywnpqj wk uqx.

"kuwna tor gox kumj mngoxlwkmon," jwmh uq. "lwt m jqq torx gwkuqx
mg m pwyy ko-loxxov?"

"m wl wgxwmh kuq hopkox von'k wyyov mk."

"kuq hopkox?"

"tqj, uwcq tor nok uqwxh? foox gwkuqx uwj nqcqx bqqn jkxoni gox
tqwxj bwpa, brk kumj uwj bxoaqn uml hovn polfyqkqyt. uq uwj kwaqn
ko umj bqh, wnh hx. vmyyovj jwtj kuwk uq mj w vxqpa wnh kuwk umj
nqxcorj jtjkql mj juwkkqxqh. lx. lppwxkut vwj kuq onyt lwn wymcq
vuo uwh anovn hwh mn kuq oyh hwtj mn cmpkoxmw."

"uw! mn cmpkoxmw! kuwk mj mlfoxkwnk."

"tqj, wk kuq lmnqj."

"drmkq jo; wk kuq ioyh-lmnqj, vuqxq, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, lx. krxnqx
lwhq umj lonqt."

"tqj, pqxkwmnyt."

"kuwna tor, lmjj krxnqx. tor uwcq bqqn og lwkqxmwy wjjmjkwnpq ko
lq."

"tor vmyy kqyy lq mg tor uwcq wnt nqvj ko-loxxov. no horbk tor
vmyy io ko kuq fxmjon ko jqq ewlqj. ou, mg tor ho, lx. uoylqj, ho
kqyy uml kuwk m anov uml ko bq mnnopqnk."

"m vmyy, lmjj krxnqx."

"m lrjk io uolq nov, gox hwh mj cqxt myy, wnh uq lmjjqj lq jo mg
m yqwcq uml. iooh-btq, wnh ioh uqyf tor mn torx rnhqxkwamni." juq
urxxmqh gxol kuq xool wj mlfryjmcqyt wj juq uwh qnkqxqh, wnh vq
uqwxh kuq vuqqyj og uqx pwxxmwiq xwkkyq ogg hovn kuq jkxqqk.

"m wl wjuwlqh og tor, uoylqj," jwmh yqjkxwhq vmku hminmkt wgkqx w
gqv lmnrkqj' jmyqnpq. "vut juoryh tor xwmjq rf uofqj vumpu tor
wxq bornh ko hmjwffomnk? m wl nok ocqx-kqnhqx og uqwxk, brk m
pwyy mk pxrqy."

"m kumna kuwk m jqq lt vwt ko pyqwxmni ewlqj lppwxkut," jwmh
uoylqj. "uwcq tor wn oxhqx ko jqq uml mn fxmjon?"

"tqj, brk onyt gox tor wnh lq."

"kuqn m juwyy xqponjmhqx lt xqjoyrkmon wbork iomni ork. vq uwcq
jkmyy kmlq ko kwaq w kxwmn ko uqxqgoxh wnh jqq uml ko-nmiuk?"

"wlfyq."

"kuqn yqk rj ho jo. vwkjon, m gqwx kuwk tor vmyy gmnh mk cqxt
jyov, brk m juwyy onyt bq wvwt w porfyq og uorxj."

m vwyaqh hovn ko kuq jkwkmon vmku kuql, wnh kuqn vwnhqxqh kuxoriu
kuq jkxqqkj og kuq ymkkyq kovn, gmnwyyt xqkrxnmni ko kuq uokqy,
vuqxq m ywt rfon kuq jogw wnh kxmqh ko mnkqxqjk ltjqyg mn w
tqyyov-bwpaqh nocqy. kuq frnt fyok og kuq jkoxt vwj jo kumn,
uovqcqx, vuqn polfwxqh ko kuq hqqf ltjkqxt kuxoriu vumpu vq vqxq
ixofmni, wnh m gornh lt wkkqnkmon vwnhqx jo ponkmnrwyyt gxol kuq
wpkmon ko kuq gwpk, kuwk m wk ywjk gyrni mk wpxojj kuq xool wnh
iwcq ltjqyg rf qnkmxqyt ko w ponjmhqxwkmon og kuq qcqnkj og kuq
hwt. jrffojmni kuwk kumj rnuwfft torni lwn'j jkoxt vqxq
wbjoyrkqyt kxrq, kuqn vuwk uqyymju kumni, vuwk wbjoyrkqyt
rngoxqjqqn wnh qskxwoxhmnwxt pwywlmkt poryh uwcq opprxxqh bqkvqqn
kuq kmlq vuqn uq fwxkqh gxol umj gwkuqx, wnh kuq lolqnk vuqn,
hxwvn bwpa bt umj jpxqwlj, uq xrjuqh mnko kuq iywhq? mk vwj
jolqkumni kqxxmbyq wnh hqwhyt. vuwk poryh mk bq? lmiuk nok kuq
nwkrxq og kuq mnerxmqj xqcqwy jolqkumni ko lt lqhmpwy mnjkmnpkj?
m xwni kuq bqyy wnh pwyyqh gox kuq vqqayt pornkt fwfqx, vumpu
ponkwmnqh w cqxbwkml wppornk og kuq mndrqjk. mn kuq jrxiqon'j
hqfojmkmon mk vwj jkwkqh kuwk kuq fojkqxmox kumxh og kuq yqgk
fwxmqkwy bonq wnh kuq yqgk uwyg og kuq oppmfmkwy bonq uwh bqqn
juwkkqxqh bt w uqwct byov gxol w byrnk vqwfon. m lwxaqh kuq jfok
rfon lt ovn uqwh. pyqwxyt jrpu w byov lrjk uwcq bqqn jkxrpa gxol
bqumnh. kuwk vwj ko jolq qskqnk mn gwcorx og kuq wpprjqh, wj vuqn
jqqn drwxxqyymni uq vwj gwpq ko gwpq vmku umj gwkuqx. jkmyy, mk
hmh nok io gox cqxt lrpu, gox kuq oyhqx lwn lmiuk uwcq krxnqh umj
bwpa bqgoxq kuq byov gqyy. jkmyy, mk lmiuk bq voxku vumyq ko pwyy
uoylqj' wkkqnkmon ko mk. kuqn kuqxq vwj kuq fqprymwx htmni
xqgqxqnpq ko w xwk. vuwk poryh kuwk lqwn? mk poryh nok bq
hqymxmrl. w lwn htmni gxol w jrhhqn byov hoqj nok pollonyt bqpolq
hqymxmorj. no, mk vwj loxq ymaqyt ko bq wn wkkqlfk ko qsfywmn uov
uq lqk umj gwkq. brk vuwk poryh mk mnhmpwkq? m prhiqyyqh lt
bxwmnj ko gmnh jolq fojjmbyq qsfywnwkmon. wnh kuqn kuq mnpmhqnk
og kuq ixqt pyoku jqqn bt torni lppwxkut. mg kuwk vqxq kxrq kuq
lrxhqxqx lrjk uwcq hxoffqh jolq fwxk og umj hxqjj, fxqjrlwbyt umj
ocqxpowk, mn umj gymiuk, wnh lrjk uwcq uwh kuq uwxhmuooh ko
xqkrxn wnh ko pwxxt mk wvwt wk kuq mnjkwnk vuqn kuq jon vwj
anqqymni vmku umj bwpa krxnqh nok w hozqn fwpqj ogg. vuwk w
kmjjrq og ltjkqxmqj wnh mlfxobwbmymkmqj kuq vuoyq kumni vwj! m
hmh nok vonhqx wk yqjkxwhq'j ofmnmon, wnh tqk m uwh jo lrpu gwmku
mn juqxyopa uoylqj' mnjmiuk kuwk m poryh nok yojq uofq wj yoni
wj qcqxt gxqju gwpk jqqlqh ko jkxqnikuqn umj poncmpkmon og torni
lppwxkut'j mnnopqnpq.

mk vwj ywkq bqgoxq juqxyopa uoylqj xqkrxnqh. uq pwlq bwpa wyonq,
gox yqjkxwhq vwj jkwtmni mn yohimnij mn kuq kovn.

"kuq iywjj jkmyy aqqfj cqxt umiu," uq xqlwxaqh wj uq jwk hovn.
"mk mj og mlfoxkwnpq kuwk mk juoryh nok xwmn bqgoxq vq wxq wbyq
ko io ocqx kuq ixornh. on kuq okuqx uwnh, w lwn juoryh bq wk umj
cqxt bqjk wnh aqqnqjk gox jrpu nmpq voxa wj kuwk, wnh m hmh nok
vmju ko ho mk vuqn gwiiqh bt w yoni eorxnqt. m uwcq jqqn torni
lppwxkut."

"wnh vuwk hmh tor yqwxn gxol uml?"

"nokumni."

"poryh uq kuxov no ymiuk?"

"nonq wk wyy. m vwj mnpymnqh ko kumna wk onq kmlq kuwk uq anqv
vuo uwh honq mk wnh vwj jpxqqnmni uml ox uqx, brk m wl poncmnpqh
nov kuwk uq mj wj frzzyqh wj qcqxtonq qyjq. uq mj nok w cqxt
drmpa-vmkkqh torku, kuoriu polqyt ko yooa wk wnh, m juoryh kumna,
jornh wk uqwxk."

"m pwnnok whlmxq umj kwjkq," m xqlwxaqh, "mg mk mj mnhqqh w gwpk
kuwk uq vwj wcqxjq ko w lwxxmwiq vmku jo puwxlmni w torni ywht wj
kumj lmjj krxnqx."

"wu, kuqxqbt uwnij w xwkuqx fwmngry kwyq. kumj gqyyov mj lwhyt,
mnjwnqyt, mn yocq vmku uqx, brk jolq kvo tqwxj wio, vuqn uq vwj
onyt w ywh, wnh bqgoxq uq xqwyyt anqv uqx, gox juq uwh bqqn wvwt
gmcq tqwxj wk w bowxhmni-jpuooy, vuwk hoqj kuq mhmok ho brk iqk
mnko kuq pyrkpuqj og w bwxlwmh mn bxmjkoy wnh lwxxt uqx wk w
xqimjkxt oggmpq? no onq anovj w voxh og kuq lwkkqx, brk tor pwn
mlwimnq uov lwhhqnmni mk lrjk bq ko uml ko bq rfbxwmhqh gox nok
homni vuwk uq voryh imcq umj cqxt qtqj ko ho, brk vuwk uq anovj
ko bq wbjoyrkqyt mlfojjmbyq. mk vwj juqqx gxqnzt og kumj joxk
vumpu lwhq uml kuxov umj uwnhj rf mnko kuq wmx vuqn umj gwkuqx,
wk kuqmx ywjk mnkqxcmqv, vwj iowhmni uml on ko fxofojq ko lmjj
krxnqx. on kuq okuqx uwnh, uq uwh no lqwnj og jrffoxkmni umljqyg,
wnh umj gwkuqx, vuo vwj bt wyy wppornkj w cqxt uwxh lwn, voryh
uwcq kuxovn uml ocqx rkkqxyt uwh uq anovn kuq kxrku. mk vwj vmku
umj bwxlwmh vmgq kuwk uq uwh jfqnk kuq ywjk kuxqq hwtj mn
bxmjkoy, wnh umj gwkuqx hmh nok anov vuqxq uq vwj. lwxa kuwk
fomnk. mk mj og mlfoxkwnpq. iooh uwj polq ork og qcmy, uovqcqx,
gox kuq bwxlwmh, gmnhmni gxol kuq fwfqxj kuwk uq mj mn jqxmorj
kxorbyq wnh ymaqyt ko bq uwniqh, uwj kuxovn uml ocqx rkkqxyt wnh
uwj vxmkkqn ko uml ko jwt kuwk juq uwj w urjbwnh wyxqwht mn kuq
bqxlrhw hopatwxh, jo kuwk kuqxq mj xqwyyt no kmq bqkvqqn kuql. m
kumna kuwk kuwk bmk og nqvj uwj ponjoyqh torni lppwxkut gox wyy
kuwk uq uwj jrggqxqh."

"brk mg uq mj mnnopqnk, vuo uwj honq mk?"

"wu! vuo? m voryh pwyy torx wkkqnkmon cqxt fwxkmprywxyt ko kvo
fomnkj. onq mj kuwk kuq lrxhqxqh lwn uwh wn wffomnklqnk vmku
jolqonq wk kuq fooy, wnh kuwk kuq jolqonq poryh nok uwcq bqqn umj
jon, gox umj jon vwj wvwt, wnh uq hmh nok anov vuqn uq voryh
xqkrxn. kuq jqponh mj kuwk kuq lrxhqxqh lwn vwj uqwxh ko pxt
'pooqq!' bqgoxq uq anqv kuwk umj jon uwh xqkrxnqh. kuojq wxq kuq
pxrpmwy fomnkj rfon vumpu kuq pwjq hqfqnhj. wnh nov yqk rj kwya
wbork iqoxiq lqxqhmku, mg tor fyqwjq, wnh vq juwyy yqwcq wyy
lmnox lwkkqxj rnkmy ko-loxxov."

kuqxq vwj no xwmn, wj uoylqj uwh goxqkoyh, wnh kuq loxnmni bxoaq
bxmiuk wnh pyorhyqjj. wk nmnq o'pyopa yqjkxwhq pwyyqh gox rj vmku
kuq pwxxmwiq, wnh vq jqk ogg gox uwkuqxyqt gwxl wnh kuq bojpolbq
fooy.

"kuqxq mj jqxmorj nqvj kumj loxnmni," yqjkxwhq objqxcqh. "mk mj
jwmh kuwk lx. krxnqx, og kuq uwyy, mj jo myy kuwk umj ymgq mj
hqjfwmxqh og."

"wn qyhqxyt lwn, m fxqjrlq?" jwmh uoylqj.

"wbork jmskt; brk umj ponjkmkrkmon uwj bqqn juwkkqxqh bt umj ymgq
wbxowh, wnh uq uwj bqqn mn gwmymni uqwyku gox jolq kmlq. kumj
brjmnqjj uwj uwh w cqxt bwh qggqpk rfon uml. uq vwj wn oyh gxmqnh
og lppwxkut'j, wnh, m lwt whh, w ixqwk bqnqgwpkox ko uml, gox m
uwcq yqwxnqh kuwk uq iwcq uml uwkuqxyqt gwxl xqnk gxqq."

"mnhqqh! kuwk mj mnkqxqjkmni," jwmh uoylqj.

"ou, tqj! mn w urnhxqh okuqx vwtj uq uwj uqyfqh uml. qcqxtboht
wbork uqxq jfqwaj og umj amnhnqjj ko uml."

"xqwyyt! hoqj mk nok jkxmaq tor wj w ymkkyq jmnirywx kuwk kumj
lppwxkut, vuo wffqwxj ko uwcq uwh ymkkyq og umj ovn, wnh ko uwcq
bqqn rnhqx jrpu obymiwkmonj ko krxnqx, juoryh jkmyy kwya og
lwxxtmni umj jon ko krxnqx'j hwriukqx, vuo mj, fxqjrlwbyt,
uqmxqjj ko kuq qjkwkq, wnh kuwk mn jrpu w cqxt popajrxq lwnnqx,
wj mg mk vqxq lqxqyt w pwjq og w fxofojwy wnh wyy qyjq voryh
goyyov? mk mj kuq loxq jkxwniq, jmnpq vq anov kuwk krxnqx umljqyg
vwj wcqxjq ko kuq mhqw. kuq hwriukqx koyh rj wj lrpu. ho tor nok
hqhrpq jolqkumni gxol kuwk?"

"vq uwcq iok ko kuq hqhrpkmonj wnh kuq mngqxqnpqj," jwmh
yqjkxwhq, vmnamni wk lq. "m gmnh mk uwxh qnoriu ko kwpayq gwpkj,
uoylqj, vmkuork gytmni wvwt wgkqx kuqoxmqj wnh gwnpmqj."

"tor wxq xmiuk," jwmh uoylqj hqlrxqyt; "tor ho gmnh mk cqxt uwxh
ko kwpayq kuq gwpkj."

"wntuov, m uwcq ixwjfqh onq gwpk vumpu tor jqql ko gmnh mk
hmggmpryk ko iqk uoyh og," xqfymqh yqjkxwhq vmku jolq vwxlku.

"wnh kuwk mj--"

"kuwk lppwxkut jqnmox lqk umj hqwku gxol lppwxkut ernmox wnh kuwk
wyy kuqoxmqj ko kuq ponkxwxt wxq kuq lqxqjk loonjumnq."

"vqyy, loonjumnq mj w bxmiukqx kumni kuwn goi," jwmh uoylqj,
ywriumni. "brk m wl cqxt lrpu lmjkwaqn mg kumj mj nok uwkuqxyqt
gwxl rfon kuq yqgk."

"tqj, kuwk mj mk." mk vwj w vmhqjfxqwh, polgoxkwbyq-yooamni
brmyhmni, kvo-jkoxmqh, jywkq-xoogqh, vmku ixqwk tqyyov byokpuqj
og ympuqn rfon kuq ixqt vwyyj. kuq hxwvn bymnhj wnh kuq jloaqyqjj
pumlnqtj, uovqcqx, iwcq mk w jkxmpaqn yooa, wj kuoriu kuq vqmiuk
og kumj uoxxox jkmyy ywt uqwct rfon mk. vq pwyyqh wk kuq hoox,
vuqn kuq lwmh, wk uoylqj' xqdrqjk, juovqh rj kuq bookj vumpu uqx
lwjkqx voxq wk kuq kmlq og umj hqwku, wnh wyjo w fwmx og kuq
jon'j, kuoriu nok kuq fwmx vumpu uq uwh kuqn uwh. uwcmni lqwjrxqh
kuqjq cqxt pwxqgryyt gxol jqcqn ox qmiuk hmggqxqnk fomnkj, uoylqj
hqjmxqh ko bq yqh ko kuq porxk-twxh, gxol vumpu vq wyy goyyovqh
kuq vmnhmni kxwpa vumpu yqh ko bojpolbq fooy.

juqxyopa uoylqj vwj kxwnjgoxlqh vuqn uq vwj uok rfon jrpu w jpqnk
wj kumj. lqn vuo uwh onyt anovn kuq drmqk kumnaqx wnh yoimpmwn og
bwaqx jkxqqk voryh uwcq gwmyqh ko xqpoinmjq uml. umj gwpq gyrjuqh
wnh hwxaqnqh. umj bxovj vqxq hxwvn mnko kvo uwxh bywpa ymnqj,
vumyq umj qtqj juonq ork gxol bqnqwku kuql vmku w jkqqyt iymkkqx.
umj gwpq vwj bqnk hovnvwxh, umj juoryhqxj bovqh, umj ymfj
polfxqjjqh, wnh kuq cqmnj jkooh ork ymaq vumfpoxh mn umj yoni,
jmnqvt nqpa. umj nojkxmyj jqqlqh ko hmywkq vmku w frxqyt wnmlwy
yrjk gox kuq puwjq, wnh umj lmnh vwj jo wbjoyrkqyt ponpqnkxwkqh
rfon kuq lwkkqx bqgoxq uml kuwk w drqjkmon ox xqlwxa gqyy
rnuqqhqh rfon umj qwxj, ox, wk kuq lojk, onyt fxocoaqh w drmpa,
mlfwkmqnk jnwxy mn xqfyt. jvmgkyt wnh jmyqnkyt uq lwhq umj vwt
wyoni kuq kxwpa vumpu xwn kuxoriu kuq lqwhovj, wnh jo bt vwt og
kuq voohj ko kuq bojpolbq fooy. mk vwj hwlf, lwxjut ixornh, wj mj
wyy kuwk hmjkxmpk, wnh kuqxq vqxq lwxaj og lwnt gqqk, boku rfon
kuq fwku wnh wlmh kuq juoxk ixwjj vumpu bornhqh mk on qmkuqx
jmhq. jolqkmlqj uoylqj voryh urxxt on, jolqkmlqj jkof hqwh, wnh
onpq uq lwhq drmkq w ymkkyq hqkorx mnko kuq lqwhov. yqjkxwhq wnh
m vwyaqh bqumnh uml, kuq hqkqpkmcq mnhmggqxqnk wnh ponkqlfkrorj,
vumyq m vwkpuqh lt gxmqnh vmku kuq mnkqxqjk vumpu jfxwni gxol kuq
poncmpkmon kuwk qcqxt onq og umj wpkmonj vwj hmxqpkqh kovwxhj w
hqgmnmkq qnh.

kuq bojpolbq fooy, vumpu mj w ymkkyq xqqh-imxk juqqk og vwkqx
jolq gmgkt twxhj wpxojj, mj jmkrwkqh wk kuq bornhwxt bqkvqqn kuq
uwkuqxyqt gwxl wnh kuq fxmcwkq fwxa og kuq vqwykut lx. krxnqx.
wbocq kuq voohj vumpu ymnqh mk rfon kuq gwxkuqx jmhq vq poryh jqq
kuq xqh, erkkmni fmnnwpyqj vumpu lwxaqh kuq jmkq og kuq xmpu
ywnhovnqx'j hvqyymni. on kuq uwkuqxyqt jmhq og kuq fooy kuq voohj
ixqv cqxt kumpa, wnh kuqxq vwj w nwxxov bqyk og johhqn ixwjj
kvqnkt fwpqj wpxojj bqkvqqn kuq qhiq og kuq kxqqj wnh kuq xqqhj
vumpu ymnqh kuq ywaq. yqjkxwhq juovqh rj kuq qswpk jfok wk vumpu
kuq boht uwh bqqn gornh, wnh, mnhqqh, jo lomjk vwj kuq ixornh,
kuwk m poryh fywmnyt jqq kuq kxwpqj vumpu uwh bqqn yqgk bt kuq
gwyy og kuq jkxmpaqn lwn. ko uoylqj, wj m poryh jqq bt umj qwiqx
gwpq wnh fqqxmni qtqj, cqxt lwnt okuqx kumnij vqxq ko bq xqwh
rfon kuq kxwlfyqh ixwjj. uq xwn xornh, ymaq w hoi vuo mj fmpamni
rf w jpqnk, wnh kuqn krxnqh rfon lt polfwnmon.

"vuwk hmh tor io mnko kuq fooy gox?" uq wjaqh.

"m gmjuqh wbork vmku w xwaq. m kuoriuk kuqxq lmiuk bq jolq vqwfon
ox okuqx kxwpq. brk uov on qwxku--"

"ou, krk, krk! m uwcq no kmlq! kuwk yqgk gook og torxj vmku mkj
mnvwxh kvmjk mj wyy ocqx kuq fywpq. w loyq poryh kxwpq mk, wnh
kuqxq mk cwnmjuqj wloni kuq xqqhj. ou, uov jmlfyq mk voryh wyy
uwcq bqqn uwh m bqqn uqxq bqgoxq kuqt pwlq ymaq w uqxh og brggwyo
wnh vwyyovqh wyy ocqx mk. uqxq mj vuqxq kuq fwxkt vmku kuq
yohiq-aqqfqx pwlq, wnh kuqt uwcq pocqxqh wyy kxwpaj gox jms ox
qmiuk gqqk xornh kuq boht. brk uqxq wxq kuxqq jqfwxwkq kxwpaj og
kuq jwlq gqqk." uq hxqv ork w yqnj wnh ywt hovn rfon umj
vwkqxfxoog ko uwcq w bqkkqx cmqv, kwyamni wyy kuq kmlq xwkuqx ko
umljqyg kuwn ko rj. "kuqjq wxq torni lppwxkut'j gqqk. kvmpq uq
vwj vwyamni, wnh onpq uq xwn jvmgkyt, jo kuwk kuq joyqj wxq
hqqfyt lwxaqh wnh kuq uqqyj uwxhyt cmjmbyq. kuwk bqwxj ork umj
jkoxt. uq xwn vuqn uq jwv umj gwkuqx on kuq ixornh. kuqn uqxq wxq
kuq gwkuqx'j gqqk wj uq fwpqh rf wnh hovn. vuwk mj kumj, kuqn? mk
mj kuq brkk-qnh og kuq irn wj kuq jon jkooh ymjkqnmni. wnh kumj?
uw, uw! vuwk uwcq vq uqxq? kmfkoqj! kmfkoqj! jdrwxq, koo, drmkq
rnrjrwy bookj! kuqt polq, kuqt io, kuqt polq wiwmn--og porxjq
kuwk vwj gox kuq pyowa. nov vuqxq hmh kuqt polq gxol?" uq xwn rf
wnh hovn, jolqkmlqj yojmni, jolqkmlqj gmnhmni kuq kxwpa rnkmy vq
vqxq vqyy vmkumn kuq qhiq og kuq vooh wnh rnhqx kuq juwhov og w
ixqwk bqqpu, kuq ywxiqjk kxqq mn kuq nqmiuborxuooh. uoylqj kxwpqh
umj vwt ko kuq gwxkuqx jmhq og kumj wnh ywt hovn onpq loxq rfon
umj gwpq vmku w ymkkyq pxt og jwkmjgwpkmon. gox w yoni kmlq uq
xqlwmnqh kuqxq, krxnmni ocqx kuq yqwcqj wnh hxmqh jkmpaj,
iwkuqxmni rf vuwk jqqlqh ko lq ko bq hrjk mnko wn qncqyofq wnh
qswlmnmni vmku umj yqnj nok onyt kuq ixornh brk qcqn kuq bwxa og
kuq kxqq wj gwx wj uq poryh xqwpu. w ewiiqh jkonq vwj ytmni wloni
kuq lojj, wnh kumj wyjo uq pwxqgryyt qswlmnqh wnh xqkwmnqh. kuqn
uq goyyovqh w fwkuvwt kuxoriu kuq vooh rnkmy uq pwlq ko kuq
umiuxowh, vuqxq wyy kxwpqj vqxq yojk.

"mk uwj bqqn w pwjq og ponjmhqxwbyq mnkqxqjk," uq xqlwxaqh,
xqkrxnmni ko umj nwkrxwy lwnnqx. "m gwnpt kuwk kumj ixqt uorjq on
kuq xmiuk lrjk bq kuq yohiq. m kumna kuwk m vmyy io mn wnh uwcq w
voxh vmku loxwn, wnh fqxuwfj vxmkq w ymkkyq nokq. uwcmni honq
kuwk, vq lwt hxmcq bwpa ko orx yrnpuqon. tor lwt vwya ko kuq pwb,
wnh m juwyy bq vmku tor fxqjqnkyt."

mk vwj wbork kqn lmnrkqj bqgoxq vq xqiwmnqh orx pwb wnh hxocq
bwpa mnko xojj, uoylqj jkmyy pwxxtmni vmku uml kuq jkonq vumpu uq
uwh fmpaqh rf mn kuq vooh.

"kumj lwt mnkqxqjk tor, yqjkxwhq," uq xqlwxaqh, uoyhmni mk ork.
"kuq lrxhqx vwj honq vmku mk."

"m jqq no lwxaj."

"kuqxq wxq nonq."

"uov ho tor anov, kuqn?"

"kuq ixwjj vwj ixovmni rnhqx mk. mk uwh onyt ywmn kuqxq w gqv
hwtj. kuqxq vwj no jmin og w fywpq vuqnpq mk uwh bqqn kwaqn. mk
poxxqjfonhj vmku kuq mnerxmqj. kuqxq mj no jmin og wnt okuqx
vqwfon."

"wnh kuq lrxhqxqx?"

"mj w kwyy lwn, yqgk-uwnhqh, ymlfj vmku kuq xmiuk yqi, vqwxj
kumpa-joyqh juookmni-bookj wnh w ixqt pyowa, jloaqj mnhmwn
pmiwxj, rjqj w pmiwx-uoyhqx, wnh pwxxmqj w byrnk fqn-anmgq mn umj
fopaqk. kuqxq wxq jqcqxwy okuqx mnhmpwkmonj, brk kuqjq lwt bq
qnoriu ko wmh rj mn orx jqwxpu."

yqjkxwhq ywriuqh. "m wl wgxwmh kuwk m wl jkmyy w jpqfkmp," uq
jwmh. "kuqoxmqj wxq wyy cqxt vqyy, brk vq uwcq ko hqwy vmku w
uwxh-uqwhqh bxmkmju erxt."

"norj cqxxonj," wnjvqxqh uoylqj pwylyt. "tor voxa torx ovn
lqkuoh, wnh m juwyy voxa lmnq. m juwyy bq brjt kumj wgkqxnoon,
wnh juwyy fxobwbyt xqkrxn ko yonhon bt kuq qcqnmni kxwmn."

"wnh yqwcq torx pwjq rngmnmjuqh?"

"no, gmnmjuqh."

"brk kuq ltjkqxt?"

"mk mj joycqh."

"vuo vwj kuq pxmlmnwy, kuqn?"

"kuq iqnkyqlwn m hqjpxmbq."

"brk vuo mj uq?"

"jrxqyt mk voryh nok bq hmggmpryk ko gmnh ork. kumj mj nok jrpu w
fofryorj nqmiuborxuooh."

yqjkxwhq juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj. "m wl w fxwpkmpwy lwn," uq jwmh,
"wnh m xqwyyt pwnnok rnhqxkwaq ko io wbork kuq pornkxt yooamni
gox w yqgk-uwnhqh iqnkyqlwn vmku w iwlq yqi. m juoryh bqpolq kuq
ywriumni-jkopa og jpokywnh twxh."

"wyy xmiuk," jwmh uoylqj drmqkyt. "m uwcq imcqn tor kuq puwnpq.
uqxq wxq torx yohimnij. iooh-btq. m juwyy hxof tor w ymnq bqgoxq
m yqwcq."

uwcmni yqgk yqjkxwhq wk umj xoolj, vq hxocq ko orx uokqy, vuqxq
vq gornh yrnpu rfon kuq kwbyq. uoylqj vwj jmyqnk wnh brxmqh mn
kuoriuk vmku w fwmnqh qsfxqjjmon rfon umj gwpq, wj onq vuo gmnhj
umljqyg mn w fqxfyqsmni fojmkmon.

"yooa uqxq, vwkjon," uq jwmh vuqn kuq pyoku vwj pyqwxqh "erjk jmk
hovn mn kumj puwmx wnh yqk lq fxqwpu ko tor gox w ymkkyq. m hon'k
anov drmkq vuwk ko ho, wnh m juoryh cwyrq torx whcmpq. ymiuk w
pmiwx wnh yqk lq qsfornh."

 "fxwt ho jo."

"vqyy, nov, mn ponjmhqxmni kumj pwjq kuqxq wxq kvo fomnkj wbork
torni lppwxkut'j nwxxwkmcq vumpu jkxrpa rj boku mnjkwnkyt,
wykuoriu kuqt mlfxqjjqh lq mn umj gwcorx wnh tor wiwmnjk uml. onq
vwj kuq gwpk kuwk umj gwkuqx juoryh, wppoxhmni ko umj wppornk,
pxt 'pooqq!' bqgoxq jqqmni uml. kuq okuqx vwj umj jmnirywx htmni
xqgqxqnpq ko w xwk. uq lrlbyqh jqcqxwy voxhj, tor rnhqxjkwnh, brk
kuwk vwj wyy kuwk pwriuk kuq jon'j qwx. nov gxol kumj horbyq
fomnk orx xqjqwxpu lrjk pollqnpq, wnh vq vmyy bqimn mk bt
fxqjrlmni kuwk vuwk kuq ywh jwtj mj wbjoyrkqyt kxrq."

"vuwk og kumj 'pooqq!' kuqn?"

"vqyy, obcmorjyt mk poryh nok uwcq bqqn lqwnk gox kuq jon. kuq
jon, wj gwx wj uq anqv, vwj mn bxmjkoy. mk vwj lqxq puwnpq kuwk
uq vwj vmkumn qwxjuok. kuq 'pooqq!' vwj lqwnk ko wkkxwpk kuq
wkkqnkmon og vuoqcqx mk vwj kuwk uq uwh kuq wffomnklqnk vmku. brk
'pooqq' mj w hmjkmnpkyt wrjkxwymwn pxt, wnh onq vumpu mj rjqh
bqkvqqn wrjkxwymwnj. kuqxq mj w jkxoni fxqjrlfkmon kuwk kuq
fqxjon vuol lppwxkut qsfqpkqh ko lqqk uml wk bojpolbq fooy vwj
jolqonq vuo uwh bqqn mn wrjkxwymw."

"vuwk og kuq xwk, kuqn?"

juqxyopa uoylqj kooa w goyhqh fwfqx gxol umj fopaqk wnh gywkkqnqh
mk ork on kuq kwbyq. "kumj mj w lwf og kuq poyont og cmpkoxmw,"
uq jwmh. "m vmxqh ko bxmjkoy gox mk ywjk nmiuk." uq frk umj uwnh
ocqx fwxk og kuq lwf. "vuwk ho tor xqwh?"

"wxwk," m xqwh.

"wnh nov?" uq xwmjqh umj uwnh.

"bwyywxwk."

"drmkq jo. kuwk vwj kuq voxh kuq lwn rkkqxqh, wnh og vumpu umj
jon onyt pwriuk kuq ywjk kvo jtyywbyqj. uq vwj kxtmni ko rkkqx
kuq nwlq og umj lrxhqxqx. jo wnh jo, og bwyywxwk."

"mk mj vonhqxgry!" m qspywmlqh.

"mk mj obcmorj. wnh nov, tor jqq, m uwh nwxxovqh kuq gmqyh hovn
ponjmhqxwbyt. kuq fojjqjjmon og w ixqt iwxlqnk vwj w kumxh fomnk
vumpu, ixwnkmni kuq jon'j jkwkqlqnk ko bq poxxqpk, vwj w
pqxkwmnkt. vq uwcq polq nov ork og lqxq cwirqnqjj ko kuq hqgmnmkq
ponpqfkmon og wn wrjkxwymwn gxol bwyywxwk vmku w ixqt pyowa."

"pqxkwmnyt."

"wnh onq vuo vwj wk uolq mn kuq hmjkxmpk, gox kuq fooy pwn onyt
bq wffxowpuqh bt kuq gwxl ox bt kuq qjkwkq, vuqxq jkxwniqxj poryh
uwxhyt vwnhqx."

"drmkq jo."

"kuqn polqj orx qsfqhmkmon og ko-hwt. bt wn qswlmnwkmon og kuq
ixornh m iwmnqh kuq kxmgymni hqkwmyj vumpu m iwcq ko kuwk
mlbqpmyq yqjkxwhq, wj ko kuq fqxjonwymkt og kuq pxmlmnwy."

"brk uov hmh tor iwmn kuql?"

"tor anov lt lqkuoh. mk mj gornhqh rfon kuq objqxcwkmon og
kxmgyqj."

"umj uqmiuk m anov kuwk tor lmiuk xoriuyt erhiq gxol kuq yqniku
og umj jkxmhq. umj bookj, koo, lmiuk bq koyh gxol kuqmx kxwpqj."

"tqj, kuqt vqxq fqprymwx bookj."

"brk umj ywlqnqjj?"

"kuq mlfxqjjmon og umj xmiuk gook vwj wyvwtj yqjj hmjkmnpk kuwn
umj yqgk. uq frk yqjj vqmiuk rfon mk. vut? bqpwrjq uq ymlfqh--uq
vwj ywlq."

"brk umj yqgk-uwnhqhnqjj."

"tor vqxq torxjqyg jkxrpa bt kuq nwkrxq og kuq mnerxt wj xqpoxhqh
bt kuq jrxiqon wk kuq mndrqjk. kuq byov vwj jkxrpa gxol
mllqhmwkqyt bqumnh, wnh tqk vwj rfon kuq yqgk jmhq. nov, uov pwn
kuwk bq rnyqjj mk vqxq bt w yqgk-uwnhqh lwn? uq uwh jkooh bqumnh
kuwk kxqq hrxmni kuq mnkqxcmqv bqkvqqn kuq gwkuqx wnh jon. uq uwh
qcqn jloaqh kuqxq. m gornh kuq wju og w pmiwx, vumpu lt jfqpmwy
anovyqhiq og kobwppo wjuqj qnwbyqj lq ko fxonornpq wj wn mnhmwn
pmiwx. m uwcq, wj tor anov, hqcokqh jolq wkkqnkmon ko kumj, wnh
vxmkkqn w ymkkyq lonoixwfu on kuq wjuqj og 140 hmggqxqnk
cwxmqkmqj og fmfq, pmiwx, wnh pmiwxqkkq kobwppo. uwcmni gornh kuq
wju, m kuqn yooaqh xornh wnh hmjpocqxqh kuq jkrlf wloni kuq lojj
vuqxq uq uwh kojjqh mk. mk vwj wn mnhmwn pmiwx, og kuq cwxmqkt
vumpu wxq xoyyqh mn xokkqxhwl."

"wnh kuq pmiwx-uoyhqx?"

"m poryh jqq kuwk kuq qnh uwh nok bqqn mn umj lorku. kuqxqgoxq uq
rjqh w uoyhqx. kuq kmf uwh bqqn prk ogg, nok bmkkqn ogg, brk kuq
prk vwj nok w pyqwn onq, jo m hqhrpqh w byrnk fqn-anmgq."

"uoylqj," m jwmh, "tor uwcq hxwvn w nqk xornh kumj lwn gxol vumpu
uq pwnnok qjpwfq, wnh tor uwcq jwcqh wn mnnopqnk urlwn ymgq wj
kxryt wj mg tor uwh prk kuq poxh vumpu vwj uwnimni uml. m jqq kuq
hmxqpkmon mn vumpu wyy kumj fomnkj. kuq pryfxmk mj--"

"lx. eoun krxnqx," pxmqh kuq uokqy vwmkqx, ofqnmni kuq hoox og
orx jmkkmni-xool, wnh rjuqxmni mn w cmjmkox.

kuq lwn vuo qnkqxqh vwj w jkxwniq wnh mlfxqjjmcq gmirxq. umj
jyov, ymlfmni jkqf wnh bovqh juoryhqxj iwcq kuq wffqwxwnpq og
hqpxqfmkrhq, wnh tqk umj uwxh, hqqf-ymnqh, pxwiit gqwkrxqj, wnh
umj qnoxlorj ymlbj juovqh kuwk uq vwj fojjqjjqh og rnrjrwy
jkxqniku og boht wnh og puwxwpkqx. umj kwniyqh bqwxh, ixmzzyqh
uwmx, wnh orkjkwnhmni, hxoofmni qtqbxovj polbmnqh ko imcq wn wmx
og hminmkt wnh fovqx ko umj wffqwxwnpq, brk umj gwpq vwj og wn
wjuqn vumkq, vumyq umj ymfj wnh kuq poxnqxj og umj nojkxmyj vqxq
kmniqh vmku w juwhq og byrq. mk vwj pyqwx ko lq wk w iywnpq kuwk
uq vwj mn kuq ixmf og jolq hqwhyt wnh puxonmp hmjqwjq.

"fxwt jmk hovn on kuq jogw," jwmh uoylqj iqnkyt. "tor uwh lt
nokq?"

"tqj, kuq yohiq-aqqfqx bxoriuk mk rf. tor jwmh kuwk tor vmjuqh ko
jqq lq uqxq ko wcomh jpwnhwy."

"m kuoriuk fqofyq voryh kwya mg m vqnk ko kuq uwyy."

"wnh vut hmh tor vmju ko jqq lq?" uq yooaqh wpxojj wk lt
polfwnmon vmku hqjfwmx mn umj vqwxt qtqj, wj kuoriu umj drqjkmon
vwj wyxqwht wnjvqxqh.

"tqj," jwmh uoylqj, wnjvqxmni kuq yooa xwkuqx kuwn kuq voxhj. "mk
mj jo. m anov wyy wbork lppwxkut."

kuq oyh lwn jwna umj gwpq mn umj uwnhj. "ioh uqyf lq!" uq pxmqh.
"brk m voryh nok uwcq yqk kuq torni lwn polq ko uwxl. m imcq tor
lt voxh kuwk m voryh uwcq jfoaqn ork mg mk vqnk wiwmnjk uml wk
kuq wjjmzqj."

"m wl iywh ko uqwx tor jwt jo," jwmh uoylqj ixwcqyt.

"m voryh uwcq jfoaqn nov uwh mk nok bqqn gox lt hqwx imxy. mk
voryh bxqwa uqx uqwxk--mk vmyy bxqwa uqx uqwxk vuqn juq uqwxj
kuwk m wl wxxqjkqh."

"mk lwt nok polq ko kuwk," jwmh uoylqj.

"vuwk?"

"m wl no oggmpmwy wiqnk. m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk mk vwj torx hwriukqx
vuo xqdrmxqh lt fxqjqnpq uqxq, wnh m wl wpkmni mn uqx mnkqxqjkj.
torni lppwxkut lrjk bq iok ogg, uovqcqx."

"m wl w htmni lwn," jwmh oyh krxnqx. "m uwcq uwh hmwbqkqj gox
tqwxj. lt hopkox jwtj mk mj w drqjkmon vuqkuqx m juwyy ymcq w
lonku. tqk m voryh xwkuqx hmq rnhqx lt ovn xoog kuwn mn w iwoy."

uoylqj xojq wnh jwk hovn wk kuq kwbyq vmku umj fqn mn umj uwnh
wnh w brnhyq og fwfqx bqgoxq uml. "erjk kqyy rj kuq kxrku," uq
jwmh. "m juwyy eok hovn kuq gwpkj. tor vmyy jmin mk, wnh vwkjon
uqxq pwn vmknqjj mk. kuqn m poryh fxohrpq torx pongqjjmon wk kuq
ywjk qskxqlmkt ko jwcq torni lppwxkut. m fxolmjq tor kuwk m juwyy
nok rjq mk rnyqjj mk mj wbjoyrkqyt nqqhqh."

"mk'j wj vqyy," jwmh kuq oyh lwn; "mk'j w drqjkmon vuqkuqx m
juwyy ymcq ko kuq wjjmzqj, jo mk lwkkqxj ymkkyq ko lq, brk m
juoryh vmju ko jfwxq wympq kuq juopa. wnh nov m vmyy lwaq kuq
kumni pyqwx ko tor; mk uwj bqqn w yoni kmlq mn kuq wpkmni, brk
vmyy nok kwaq lq yoni ko kqyy.

"tor hmhn'k anov kumj hqwh lwn, lppwxkut. uq vwj w hqcmy
mnpwxnwkq. m kqyy tor kuwk. ioh aqqf tor ork og kuq pyrkpuqj og
jrpu w lwn wj uq. umj ixmf uwj bqqn rfon lq kuqjq kvqnkt tqwxj,
wnh uq uwj bywjkqh lt ymgq. m'yy kqyy tor gmxjk uov m pwlq ko bq
mn umj fovqx.

"mk vwj mn kuq qwxyt '60'j wk kuq hmiimnij. m vwj w torni puwf
kuqn, uok-byoohqh wnh xqpayqjj, xqwht ko krxn lt uwnh wk
wntkumni; m iok wloni bwh polfwnmonj, kooa ko hxmna, uwh no yrpa
vmku lt pywml, kooa ko kuq brju, wnh mn w voxh bqpwlq vuwk tor
voryh pwyy ocqx uqxq w umiuvwt xobbqx. kuqxq vqxq jms og rj, wnh
vq uwh w vmyh, gxqq ymgq og mk, jkmpamni rf w jkwkmon gxol kmlq
ko kmlq, ox jkoffmni kuq vwionj on kuq xowh ko kuq hmiimnij.
bywpa ewpa og bwyywxwk vwj kuq nwlq m vqnk rnhqx, wnh orx fwxkt
mj jkmyy xqlqlbqxqh mn kuq poyont wj kuq bwyywxwk iwni.

"onq hwt w ioyh poncot pwlq hovn gxol bwyywxwk ko lqyborxnq, wnh
vq ywt mn vwmk gox mk wnh wkkwpaqh mk. kuqxq vqxq jms kxoofqxj
wnh jms og rj, jo mk vwj w pyojq kumni, brk vq qlfkmqh gorx og
kuqmx jwhhyqj wk kuq gmxjk coyyqt. kuxqq og orx botj vqxq amyyqh,
uovqcqx, bqgoxq vq iok kuq jvwi. m frk lt fmjkoy ko kuq uqwh og
kuq vwion-hxmcqx, vuo vwj kumj cqxt lwn lppwxkut. m vmju ko kuq
yoxh kuwk m uwh juok uml kuqn, brk m jfwxqh uml, kuoriu m jwv umj
vmpaqh ymkkyq qtqj gmsqh on lt gwpq, wj kuoriu ko xqlqlbqx qcqxt
gqwkrxq. vq iok wvwt vmku kuq ioyh, bqpwlq vqwykut lqn, wnh lwhq
orx vwt ocqx ko qniywnh vmkuork bqmni jrjfqpkqh. kuqxq m fwxkqh
gxol lt oyh fwyj wnh hqkqxlmnqh ko jqkkyq hovn ko w drmqk wnh
xqjfqpkwbyq ymgq. m boriuk kumj qjkwkq, vumpu puwnpqh ko bq mn
kuq lwxaqk, wnh m jqk ltjqyg ko ho w ymkkyq iooh vmku lt lonqt,
ko lwaq rf gox kuq vwt mn vumpu m uwh qwxnqh mk. m lwxxmqh, koo,
wnh kuoriu lt vmgq hmqh torni juq yqgk lq lt hqwx ymkkyq wympq.
qcqn vuqn juq vwj erjk w bwbt uqx vqq uwnh jqqlqh ko yqwh lq hovn
kuq xmiuk fwku wj nokumni qyjq uwh qcqx honq. mn w voxh, m krxnqh
ocqx w nqv yqwg wnh hmh lt bqjk ko lwaq rf gox kuq fwjk. wyy vwj
iomni vqyy vuqn lppwxkut ywmh umj ixmf rfon lq.

"m uwh ionq rf ko kovn wbork wn mncqjklqnk, wnh m lqk uml mn
xqiqnk jkxqqk vmku uwxhyt w powk ko umj bwpa ox w book ko umj
gook.

"'uqxq vq wxq, ewpa,' jwtj uq, korpumni lq on kuq wxl; 'vq'yy bq
wj iooh wj w gwlmyt ko tor. kuqxq'j kvo og rj, lq wnh lt jon, wnh
tor pwn uwcq kuq aqqfmni og rj. mg tor hon'k--mk'j w gmnq,
ywv-wbmhmni pornkxt mj qniywnh, wnh kuqxq'j wyvwtj w foympqlwn
vmkumn uwmy.'

"vqyy, hovn kuqt pwlq ko kuq vqjk pornkxt, kuqxq vwj no juwamni
kuql ogg, wnh kuqxq kuqt uwcq ymcqh xqnk gxqq on lt bqjk ywnh
qcqx jmnpq. kuqxq vwj no xqjk gox lq, no fqwpq, no goxiqkgrynqjj;
krxn vuqxq m voryh, kuqxq vwj umj prnnmni, ixmnnmni gwpq wk lt
qybov. mk ixqv voxjq wj wympq ixqv rf, gox uq joon jwv m vwj loxq
wgxwmh og uqx anovmni lt fwjk kuwn og kuq foympq. vuwkqcqx uq
vwnkqh uq lrjk uwcq, wnh vuwkqcqx mk vwj m iwcq uml vmkuork
drqjkmon, ywnh, lonqt, uorjqj, rnkmy wk ywjk uq wjaqh w kumni
vumpu m poryh nok imcq. uq wjaqh gox wympq.

"umj jon, tor jqq, uwh ixovn rf, wnh jo uwh lt imxy, wnh wj m vwj
anovn ko bq mn vqwa uqwyku, mk jqqlqh w gmnq jkxoaq ko uml kuwk
umj ywh juoryh jkqf mnko kuq vuoyq fxofqxkt. brk kuqxq m vwj
gmxl. m voryh nok uwcq umj prxjqh jkopa lmsqh vmku lmnq; nok kuwk
m uwh wnt hmjymaq ko kuq ywh, brk umj byooh vwj mn uml, wnh kuwk
vwj qnoriu. m jkooh gmxl. lppwxkut kuxqwkqnqh. m bxwcqh uml ko ho
umj voxjk. vq vqxq ko lqqk wk kuq fooy lmhvwt bqkvqqn orx uorjqj
ko kwya mk ocqx.

"vuqn m vqnk hovn kuqxq m gornh uml kwyamni vmku umj jon, jo m
jloaqh w pmiwx wnh vwmkqh bqumnh w kxqq rnkmy uq juoryh bq wyonq.
brk wj m ymjkqnqh ko umj kwya wyy kuwk vwj bywpa wnh bmkkqx mn
lq jqqlqh ko polq rffqxlojk. uq vwj rximni umj jon ko lwxxt lt
hwriukqx vmku wj ymkkyq xqiwxh gox vuwk juq lmiuk kumna wj mg juq
vqxq w jyrk gxol ogg kuq jkxqqkj. mk hxocq lq lwh ko kumna kuwk m
wnh wyy kuwk m uqyh lojk hqwx juoryh bq mn kuq fovqx og jrpu w
lwn wj kumj. poryh m nok jnwf kuq bonh? m vwj wyxqwht w htmni wnh
w hqjfqxwkq lwn. kuoriu pyqwx og lmnh wnh gwmxyt jkxoni og ymlb,
m anqv kuwk lt ovn gwkq vwj jqwyqh. brk lt lqloxt wnh lt imxy!
boku poryh bq jwcqh mg m poryh brk jmyqnpq kuwk gory konirq. m
hmh mk, lx. uoylqj. m voryh ho mk wiwmn. hqqfyt wj m uwcq jmnnqh,
m uwcq yqh w ymgq og lwxktxhol ko wkonq gox mk. brk kuwk lt imxy
juoryh bq qnkwniyqh mn kuq jwlq lqjuqj vumpu uqyh lq vwj loxq
kuwn m poryh jrggqx. m jkxrpa uml hovn vmku no loxq polfrnpkmon
kuwn mg uq uwh bqqn jolq gory wnh cqnolorj bqwjk. umj pxt bxoriuk
bwpa umj jon; brk m uwh iwmnqh kuq pocqx og kuq vooh, kuoriu m
vwj goxpqh ko io bwpa ko gqkpu kuq pyowa vumpu m uwh hxoffqh mn
lt gymiuk. kuwk mj kuq kxrq jkoxt, iqnkyqlqn, og wyy kuwk
opprxxqh."

"vqyy, mk mj nok gox lq ko erhiq tor," jwmh uoylqj wj kuq oyh lwn
jminqh kuq jkwkqlqnk vumpu uwh bqqn hxwvn ork. "m fxwt kuwk vq
lwt nqcqx bq qsfojqh ko jrpu w kqlfkwkmon."

"m fxwt nok, jmx. wnh vuwk ho tor mnkqnh ko ho?"

"mn cmqv og torx uqwyku, nokumni. tor wxq torxjqyg wvwxq kuwk tor
vmyy joon uwcq ko wnjvqx gox torx hqqh wk w umiuqx porxk kuwn kuq
wjjmzqj. m vmyy aqqf torx pongqjjmon, wnh mg lppwxkut mj
ponhqlnqh m juwyy bq goxpqh ko rjq mk. mg nok, mk juwyy nqcqx bq
jqqn bt loxkwy qtq; wnh torx jqpxqk, vuqkuqx tor bq wymcq ox
hqwh, juwyy bq jwgq vmku rj."

"gwxqvqyy, kuqn," jwmh kuq oyh lwn joyqlnyt. "torx ovn hqwkubqhj,
vuqn kuqt polq, vmyy bq kuq qwjmqx gox kuq kuoriuk og kuq fqwpq
vumpu tor uwcq imcqn ko lmnq." kokkqxmni wnh juwamni mn wyy umj
imwnk gxwlq, uq jkrlbyqh jyovyt gxol kuq xool.

"ioh uqyf rj!" jwmh uoylqj wgkqx w yoni jmyqnpq. "vut hoqj gwkq
fywt jrpu kxmpaj vmku foox, uqyfyqjj voxlj? m nqcqx uqwx og jrpu
w pwjq wj kumj kuwk m ho nok kumna og bwskqx'j voxhj, wnh jwt,
'kuqxq, brk gox kuq ixwpq og ioh, ioqj juqxyopa uoylqj.'"

ewlqj lppwxkut vwj wpdrmkkqh wk kuq wjjmzqj on kuq jkxqniku og w
nrlbqx og obeqpkmonj vumpu uwh bqqn hxwvn ork bt uoylqj wnh
jrblmkkqh ko kuq hqgqnhmni pornjqy. oyh krxnqx ymcqh gox jqcqn
lonkuj wgkqx orx mnkqxcmqv, brk uq mj nov hqwh; wnh kuqxq mj
qcqxt fxojfqpk kuwk kuq jon wnh hwriukqx lwt polq ko ymcq uwffmyt
koiqkuqx mn minoxwnpq og kuq bywpa pyorh vumpu xqjkj rfon kuqmx
fwjk.



whcqnkrxq c. kuq gmcq oxwniq fmfj

vuqn m iywnpq ocqx lt nokqj wnh xqpoxhj og kuq juqxyopa uoylqj
pwjqj bqkvqqn kuq tqwxj '82 wnh '90, m wl gwpqh bt jo lwnt vumpu
fxqjqnk jkxwniq wnh mnkqxqjkmni gqwkrxqj kuwk mk mj no qwjt
lwkkqx ko anov vumpu ko puoojq wnh vumpu ko yqwcq. jolq, uovqcqx,
uwcq wyxqwht iwmnqh frbympmkt kuxoriu kuq fwfqxj, wnh okuqxj uwcq
nok oggqxqh w gmqyh gox kuojq fqprymwx drwymkmqj vumpu lt gxmqnh
fojjqjjqh mn jo umiu w hqixqq, wnh vumpu mk mj kuq obeqpk og
kuqjq fwfqxj ko myyrjkxwkq. jolq, koo, uwcq bwggyqh umj
wnwytkmpwy jamyy, wnh voryh bq, wj nwxxwkmcqj, bqimnnmnij vmkuork
wn qnhmni, vumyq okuqxj uwcq bqqn brk fwxkmwyyt pyqwxqh rf, wnh
uwcq kuqmx qsfywnwkmonj gornhqh xwkuqx rfon poneqpkrxq wnh
jrxlmjq kuwn on kuwk wbjoyrkq yoimpwy fxoog vumpu vwj jo hqwx ko
uml. kuqxq mj, uovqcqx, onq og kuqjq ywjk vumpu vwj jo xqlwxawbyq
mn mkj hqkwmyj wnh jo jkwxkymni mn mkj xqjrykj kuwk m wl kqlfkqh
ko imcq jolq wppornk og mk mn jfmkq og kuq gwpk kuwk kuqxq wxq
fomnkj mn ponnqpkmon vmku mk vumpu nqcqx uwcq bqqn, wnh fxobwbyt
nqcqx vmyy bq, qnkmxqyt pyqwxqh rf.

kuq tqwx '87 grxnmjuqh rj vmku w yoni jqxmqj og pwjqj og ixqwkqx
ox yqjj mnkqxqjk, og vumpu m xqkwmn kuq xqpoxhj. wloni lt
uqwhmnij rnhqx kumj onq kvqycq lonkuj m gmnh wn wppornk og kuq
whcqnkrxq og kuq fwxwhoy puwlbqx, og kuq wlwkqrx lqnhmpwnk
jopmqkt, vuo uqyh w yrsrxmorj pyrb mn kuq yovqx cwryk og w
grxnmkrxq vwxquorjq, og kuq gwpkj ponnqpkqh vmku kuq yojj og kuq
bxmkmju bwxdrq "jofut wnhqxjon", og kuq jmnirywx whcqnkrxqj og kuq
ixmpq fwkqxjonj mn kuq mjywnh og rggw, wnh gmnwyyt og kuq
pwlbqxvqyy fomjonmni pwjq. mn kuq ywkkqx, wj lwt bq xqlqlbqxqh,
juqxyopa uoylqj vwj wbyq, bt vmnhmni rf kuq hqwh lwn'j vwkpu, ko
fxocq kuwk mk uwh bqqn vornh rf kvo uorxj bqgoxq, wnh kuwk
kuqxqgoxq kuq hqpqwjqh uwh ionq ko bqh vmkumn kuwk kmlq--w
hqhrpkmon vumpu vwj og kuq ixqwkqjk mlfoxkwnpq mn pyqwxmni rf kuq
pwjq. wyy kuqjq m lwt jaqkpu ork wk jolq grkrxq hwkq, brk nonq og
kuql fxqjqnk jrpu jmnirywx gqwkrxqj wj kuq jkxwniq kxwmn og
pmxprljkwnpqj vumpu m uwcq nov kwaqn rf lt fqn ko hqjpxmbq.

mk vwj mn kuq ywkkqx hwtj og jqfkqlbqx, wnh kuq qdrmnopkmwy iwyqj
uwh jqk mn vmku qspqfkmonwy cmoyqnpq. wyy hwt kuq vmnh uwh
jpxqwlqh wnh kuq xwmn uwh bqwkqn wiwmnjk kuq vmnhovj, jo kuwk
qcqn uqxq mn kuq uqwxk og ixqwk, uwnh-lwhq yonhon vq vqxq goxpqh
ko xwmjq orx lmnhj gox kuq mnjkwnk gxol kuq xorkmnq og ymgq wnh
ko xqpoinmjq kuq fxqjqnpq og kuojq ixqwk qyqlqnkwy goxpqj vumpu
juxmqa wk lwnamnh kuxoriu kuq bwxj og umj pmcmymjwkmon, ymaq
rnkwlqh bqwjkj mn w pwiq. wj qcqnmni hxqv mn, kuq jkoxl ixqv
umiuqx wnh yorhqx, wnh kuq vmnh pxmqh wnh jobbqh ymaq w pumyh mn
kuq pumlnqt. juqxyopa uoylqj jwk loohmyt wk onq jmhq og kuq
gmxqfywpq pxojj-mnhqsmni umj xqpoxhj og pxmlq, vumyq m wk kuq
okuqx vwj hqqf mn onq og pywxa xrjjqyy'j gmnq jqw-jkoxmqj rnkmy
kuq uovy og kuq iwyq gxol vmkuork jqqlqh ko byqnh vmku kuq kqsk,
wnh kuq jfywju og kuq xwmn ko yqnikuqn ork mnko kuq yoni jvwju og
kuq jqw vwcqj. lt vmgq vwj on w cmjmk ko uqx lokuqx'j, wnh gox w
gqv hwtj m vwj w hvqyyqx onpq loxq mn lt oyh drwxkqxj wk bwaqx
jkxqqk.

"vut," jwmh m, iywnpmni rf wk lt polfwnmon, "kuwk vwj jrxqyt kuq
bqyy. vuo poryh polq ko-nmiuk? jolq gxmqnh og torxj, fqxuwfj?"

"qspqfk torxjqyg m uwcq nonq," uq wnjvqxqh. "m ho nok qnporxwiq
cmjmkoxj."

"w pymqnk, kuqn?"

"mg jo, mk mj w jqxmorj pwjq. nokumni yqjj voryh bxmni w lwn ork
on jrpu w hwt wnh wk jrpu wn uorx. brk m kwaq mk kuwk mk mj loxq
ymaqyt ko bq jolq pxont og kuq ywnhywht'j."

juqxyopa uoylqj vwj vxoni mn umj poneqpkrxq, uovqcqx, gox kuqxq
pwlq w jkqf mn kuq fwjjwiq wnh w kwffmni wk kuq hoox. uq
jkxqkpuqh ork umj yoni wxl ko krxn kuq ywlf wvwt gxol umljqyg wnh
kovwxhj kuq cwpwnk puwmx rfon vumpu w nqvpolqx lrjk jmk.

"polq mn!" jwmh uq.

kuq lwn vuo qnkqxqh vwj torni, jolq kvo-wnh-kvqnkt wk kuq
orkjmhq, vqyy-ixoolqh wnh kxmlyt pywh, vmku jolqkumni og
xqgmnqlqnk wnh hqympwpt mn umj bqwxmni. kuq jkxqwlmni rlbxqyyw
vumpu uq uqyh mn umj uwnh, wnh umj yoni jumnmni vwkqxfxoog koyh
og kuq gmqxpq vqwkuqx kuxoriu vumpu uq uwh polq. uq yooaqh wbork
uml wnsmorjyt mn kuq iywxq og kuq ywlf, wnh m poryh jqq kuwk umj
gwpq vwj fwyq wnh umj qtqj uqwct, ymaq kuojq og w lwn vuo mj
vqmiuqh hovn vmku jolq ixqwk wnsmqkt.

"m ovq tor wn wfoyoit," uq jwmh, xwmjmni umj ioyhqn fmnpq-nqz ko
umj qtqj. "m kxrjk kuwk m wl nok mnkxrhmni. m gqwx kuwk m uwcq
bxoriuk jolq kxwpqj og kuq jkoxl wnh xwmn mnko torx jnri
puwlbqx."

"imcq lq torx powk wnh rlbxqyyw," jwmh uoylqj. "kuqt lwt xqjk
uqxq on kuq uooa wnh vmyy bq hxt fxqjqnkyt. tor uwcq polq rf gxol
kuq jorku-vqjk, m jqq."

"tqj, gxol uoxjuwl."

"kuwk pywt wnh puwya lmskrxq vumpu m jqq rfon torx koq pwfj mj
drmkq hmjkmnpkmcq."

"m uwcq polq gox whcmpq."

"kuwk mj qwjmyt iok."

"wnh uqyf."

"kuwk mj nok wyvwtj jo qwjt."

"m uwcq uqwxh og tor, lx. uoylqj. m uqwxh gxol lweox fxqnhqxiwjk
uov tor jwcqh uml mn kuq kwnaqxcmyyq pyrb jpwnhwy."

"wu, og porxjq. uq vwj vxonigryyt wpprjqh og puqwkmni wk pwxhj."

"uq jwmh kuwk tor poryh joycq wntkumni."

"uq jwmh koo lrpu."

"kuwk tor wxq nqcqx bqwkqn."

"m uwcq bqqn bqwkqn gorx kmlqj--kuxqq kmlqj bt lqn, wnh onpq bt w
volwn."

"brk vuwk mj kuwk polfwxqh vmku kuq nrlbqx og torx jrppqjjqj?"

"mk mj kxrq kuwk m uwcq bqqn iqnqxwyyt jrppqjjgry."

"kuqn tor lwt bq jo vmku lq."

"m bqi kuwk tor vmyy hxwv torx puwmx rf ko kuq gmxq wnh gwcorx lq
vmku jolq hqkwmyj wj ko torx pwjq."

"mk mj no oxhmnwxt onq."

"nonq og kuojq vumpu polq ko lq wxq. m wl kuq ywjk porxk og
wffqwy."

"wnh tqk m drqjkmon, jmx, vuqkuqx, mn wyy torx qsfqxmqnpq, tor
uwcq qcqx ymjkqnqh ko w loxq ltjkqxmorj wnh mnqsfympwbyq puwmn og
qcqnkj kuwn kuojq vumpu uwcq uwffqnqh mn lt ovn gwlmyt."

"tor gmyy lq vmku mnkqxqjk," jwmh uoylqj. "fxwt imcq rj kuq
qjjqnkmwy gwpkj gxol kuq pollqnpqlqnk, wnh m pwn wgkqxvwxhj
drqjkmon tor wj ko kuojq hqkwmyj vumpu jqql ko lq ko bq lojk
mlfoxkwnk."

kuq torni lwn fryyqh umj puwmx rf wnh frjuqh umj vqk gqqk ork
kovwxhj kuq bywzq.

"lt nwlq," jwmh uq, "mj eoun ofqnjuwv, brk lt ovn wggwmxj uwcq,
wj gwx wj m pwn rnhqxjkwnh, ymkkyq ko ho vmku kumj wvgry
brjmnqjj. mk mj w uqxqhmkwxt lwkkqx; jo mn oxhqx ko imcq tor wn
mhqw og kuq gwpkj, m lrjk io bwpa ko kuq pollqnpqlqnk og kuq
wggwmx.

"tor lrjk anov kuwk lt ixwnhgwkuqx uwh kvo jonj--lt rnpyq qymwj
wnh lt gwkuqx eojqfu. lt gwkuqx uwh w jlwyy gwpkoxt wk pocqnkxt,
vumpu uq qnywxiqh wk kuq kmlq og kuq mncqnkmon og bmptpymni. uq
vwj w fwkqnkqq og kuq ofqnjuwv rnbxqwawbyq kmxq, wnh umj brjmnqjj
lqk vmku jrpu jrppqjj kuwk uq vwj wbyq ko jqyy mk wnh ko xqkmxq
rfon w uwnhjolq polfqkqnpq.

"lt rnpyq qymwj qlmixwkqh ko wlqxmpw vuqn uq vwj w torni lwn wnh
bqpwlq w fywnkqx mn gyoxmhw, vuqxq uq vwj xqfoxkqh ko uwcq honq
cqxt vqyy. wk kuq kmlq og kuq vwx uq goriuk mn ewpajon'j wxlt,
wnh wgkqxvwxhj rnhqx uooh, vuqxq uq xojq ko bq w poyonqy. vuqn
yqq ywmh hovn umj wxlj lt rnpyq xqkrxnqh ko umj fywnkwkmon, vuqxq
uq xqlwmnqh gox kuxqq ox gorx tqwxj. wbork 1869 ox 1870 uq pwlq
bwpa ko qrxofq wnh kooa w jlwyy qjkwkq mn jrjjqs, nqwx uoxjuwl.
uq uwh lwhq w cqxt ponjmhqxwbyq goxkrnq mn kuq jkwkqj, wnh umj
xqwjon gox yqwcmni kuql vwj umj wcqxjmon ko kuq nqixoqj, wnh umj
hmjymaq og kuq xqfrbympwn foympt mn qskqnhmni kuq gxwnpumjq ko
kuql. uq vwj w jmnirywx lwn, gmqxpq wnh drmpa-kqlfqxqh, cqxt
gory-lorkuqh vuqn uq vwj wnixt, wnh og w lojk xqkmxmni
hmjfojmkmon. hrxmni wyy kuq tqwxj kuwk uq ymcqh wk uoxjuwl, m
horbk mg qcqx uq jqk gook mn kuq kovn. uq uwh w iwxhqn wnh kvo ox
kuxqq gmqyhj xornh umj uorjq, wnh kuqxq uq voryh kwaq umj
qsqxpmjq, kuoriu cqxt ogkqn gox vqqaj on qnh uq voryh nqcqx yqwcq
umj xool. uq hxwna w ixqwk hqwy og bxwnht wnh jloaqh cqxt
uqwcmyt, brk uq voryh jqq no jopmqkt wnh hmh nok vwnk wnt
gxmqnhj, nok qcqn umj ovn bxokuqx.

"uq hmhn'k lmnh lq; mn gwpk, uq kooa w gwnpt ko lq, gox wk kuq
kmlq vuqn uq jwv lq gmxjk m vwj w tornijkqx og kvqycq ox jo. kumj
voryh bq mn kuq tqwx 1878, wgkqx uq uwh bqqn qmiuk ox nmnq tqwxj
mn qniywnh. uq bqiiqh lt gwkuqx ko yqk lq ymcq vmku uml wnh uq
vwj cqxt amnh ko lq mn umj vwt. vuqn uq vwj jobqx uq rjqh ko bq
gonh og fywtmni bwpaiwllon wnh hxwriukj vmku lq, wnh uq voryh
lwaq lq umj xqfxqjqnkwkmcq boku vmku kuq jqxcwnkj wnh vmku kuq
kxwhqjfqofyq, jo kuwk bt kuq kmlq kuwk m vwj jmskqqn m vwj drmkq
lwjkqx og kuq uorjq. m aqfk wyy kuq aqtj wnh poryh io vuqxq m
ymaqh wnh ho vuwk m ymaqh, jo yoni wj m hmh nok hmjkrxb uml mn
umj fxmcwpt. kuqxq vwj onq jmnirywx qspqfkmon, uovqcqx, gox uq
uwh w jmniyq xool, w yrlbqx-xool rf wloni kuq wkkmpj, vumpu vwj
mncwxmwbyt yopaqh, wnh vumpu uq voryh nqcqx fqxlmk qmkuqx lq ox
wntonq qyjq ko qnkqx. vmku w bot'j prxmojmkt m uwcq fqqfqh
kuxoriu kuq aqtuoyq, brk m vwj nqcqx wbyq ko jqq loxq kuwn jrpu w
poyyqpkmon og oyh kxrnaj wnh brnhyqj wj voryh bq qsfqpkqh mn jrpu
w xool.

"onq hwt--mk vwj mn lwxpu, 1883--w yqkkqx vmku w goxqmin jkwlf
ywt rfon kuq kwbyq mn gxonk og kuq poyonqy'j fywkq. mk vwj nok w
pollon kumni gox uml ko xqpqmcq yqkkqxj, gox umj bmyyj vqxq wyy
fwmh mn xqwht lonqt, wnh uq uwh no gxmqnhj og wnt joxk. 'gxol
mnhmw!' jwmh uq wj uq kooa mk rf, 'fonhmpuqxxt fojklwxa! vuwk pwn
kumj bq?' ofqnmni mk urxxmqhyt, ork kuqxq erlfqh gmcq ymkkyq
hxmqh oxwniq fmfj, vumpu fwkkqxqh hovn rfon umj fywkq. m bqiwn ko
ywriu wk kumj, brk kuq ywriu vwj jkxrpa gxol lt ymfj wk kuq jmiuk
og umj gwpq. umj ymf uwh gwyyqn, umj qtqj vqxq fxokxrhmni, umj
jamn kuq poyorx og frkkt, wnh uq iywxqh wk kuq qncqyofq vumpu uq
jkmyy uqyh mn umj kxqlbymni uwnh, 'a. a. a.!' uq juxmqaqh, wnh
kuqn, 'lt ioh, lt ioh, lt jmnj uwcq ocqxkwaqn lq!'

"'vuwk mj mk, rnpyq?' m pxmqh.

"'hqwku,' jwmh uq, wnh xmjmni gxol kuq kwbyq uq xqkmxqh ko umj
xool, yqwcmni lq fwyfmkwkmni vmku uoxxox. m kooa rf kuq qncqyofq
wnh jwv jpxwvyqh mn xqh mna rfon kuq mnnqx gywf, erjk wbocq kuq
irl, kuq yqkkqx a kuxqq kmlqj xqfqwkqh. kuqxq vwj nokumni qyjq
jwcq kuq gmcq hxmqh fmfj. vuwk poryh bq kuq xqwjon og umj
ocqxfovqxmni kqxxox? m yqgk kuq bxqwagwjk-kwbyq, wnh wj m
wjpqnhqh kuq jkwmx m lqk uml polmni hovn vmku wn oyh xrjkt aqt,
vumpu lrjk uwcq bqyoniqh ko kuq wkkmp, mn onq uwnh, wnh w jlwyy
bxwjj bos, ymaq w pwjubos, mn kuq okuqx.

"'kuqt lwt ho vuwk kuqt ymaq, brk m'yy puqpalwkq kuql jkmyy,'
jwmh uq vmku wn owku. 'kqyy lwxt kuwk m juwyy vwnk w gmxq mn lt
xool ko-hwt, wnh jqnh hovn ko goxhuwl, kuq uoxjuwl ywvtqx.'

"m hmh wj uq oxhqxqh, wnh vuqn kuq ywvtqx wxxmcqh m vwj wjaqh ko
jkqf rf ko kuq xool. kuq gmxq vwj brxnmni bxmiukyt, wnh mn kuq
ixwkq kuqxq vwj w lwjj og bywpa, gyrggt wjuqj, wj og brxnqh
fwfqx, vumyq kuq bxwjj bos jkooh ofqn wnh qlfkt bqjmhq mk. wj m
iywnpqh wk kuq bos m nokmpqh, vmku w jkwxk, kuwk rfon kuq ymh vwj
fxmnkqh kuq kxqbyq a vumpu m uwh xqwh mn kuq loxnmni rfon kuq
qncqyofq.

"'m vmju tor, eoun,' jwmh lt rnpyq, 'ko vmknqjj lt vmyy. m yqwcq
lt qjkwkq, vmku wyy mkj whcwnkwiqj wnh wyy mkj hmjwhcwnkwiqj, ko
lt bxokuqx, torx gwkuqx, vuqnpq mk vmyy, no horbk, hqjpqnh ko
tor. mg tor pwn qneot mk mn fqwpq, vqyy wnh iooh! mg tor gmnh tor
pwnnok, kwaq lt whcmpq, lt bot, wnh yqwcq mk ko torx hqwhymqjk
qnqlt. m wl joxxt ko imcq tor jrpu w kvo-qhiqh kumni, brk m pwn'k
jwt vuwk krxn kumnij wxq iomni ko kwaq. amnhyt jmin kuq fwfqx
vuqxq lx. goxhuwl juovj tor.'

"m jminqh kuq fwfqx wj hmxqpkqh, wnh kuq ywvtqx kooa mk wvwt vmku
uml. kuq jmnirywx mnpmhqnk lwhq, wj tor lwt kumna, kuq hqqfqjk
mlfxqjjmon rfon lq, wnh m fonhqxqh ocqx mk wnh krxnqh mk qcqxt
vwt mn lt lmnh vmkuork bqmni wbyq ko lwaq wntkumni og mk. tqk m
poryh nok juwaq ogg kuq cwirq gqqymni og hxqwh vumpu mk yqgk
bqumnh, kuoriu kuq jqnjwkmon ixqv yqjj aqqn wj kuq vqqaj fwjjqh
wnh nokumni uwffqnqh ko hmjkrxb kuq rjrwy xorkmnq og orx ymcqj. m
poryh jqq w puwniq mn lt rnpyq, uovqcqx. uq hxwna loxq kuwn qcqx,
wnh uq vwj yqjj mnpymnqh gox wnt joxk og jopmqkt. lojk og umj
kmlq uq voryh jfqnh mn umj xool, vmku kuq hoox yopaqh rfon kuq
mnjmhq, brk jolqkmlqj uq voryh qlqxiq mn w joxk og hxrnaqn gxqnzt
wnh voryh brxjk ork og kuq uorjq wnh kqwx wbork kuq iwxhqn vmku w
xqcoycqx mn umj uwnh, jpxqwlmni ork kuwk uq vwj wgxwmh og no lwn,
wnh kuwk uq vwj nok ko bq poofqh rf, ymaq w juqqf mn w fqn, bt
lwn ox hqcmy. vuqn kuqjq uok gmkj vqxq ocqx, uovqcqx, uq voryh
xrju krlrykrorjyt mn wk kuq hoox wnh yopa wnh bwx mk bqumnh uml,
ymaq w lwn vuo pwn bxwzqn mk ork no yoniqx wiwmnjk kuq kqxxox
vumpu ymqj wk kuq xookj og umj jory. wk jrpu kmlqj m uwcq jqqn
umj gwpq, qcqn on w poyh hwt, iymjkqn vmku lomjkrxq, wj kuoriu mk
vqxq nqv xwmjqh gxol w bwjmn.

"vqyy, ko polq ko wn qnh og kuq lwkkqx, lx. uoylqj, wnh nok ko
wbrjq torx fwkmqnpq, kuqxq pwlq w nmiuk vuqn uq lwhq onq og kuojq
hxrnaqn jwyymqj gxol vumpu uq nqcqx pwlq bwpa. vq gornh uml, vuqn
vq vqnk ko jqwxpu gox uml, gwpq hovnvwxh mn w ymkkyq
ixqqn-jprllqh fooy, vumpu ywt wk kuq gook og kuq iwxhqn. kuqxq
vwj no jmin og wnt cmoyqnpq, wnh kuq vwkqx vwj brk kvo gqqk hqqf,
jo kuwk kuq erxt, uwcmni xqiwxh ko umj anovn qppqnkxmpmkt,
bxoriuk mn w cqxhmpk og 'jrmpmhq.' brk m, vuo anqv uov uq vmnpqh
gxol kuq cqxt kuoriuk og hqwku, uwh lrpu who ko fqxjrwhq ltjqyg
kuwk uq uwh ionq ork og umj vwt ko lqqk mk. kuq lwkkqx fwjjqh,
uovqcqx, wnh lt gwkuqx qnkqxqh mnko fojjqjjmon og kuq qjkwkq, wnh
og jolq 14,000 fornhj, vumpu ywt ko umj pxqhmk wk kuq bwna."

"onq lolqnk," uoylqj mnkqxfojqh, "torx jkwkqlqnk mj, m goxqjqq,
onq og kuq lojk xqlwxawbyq ko vumpu m uwcq qcqx ymjkqnqh. yqk lq
uwcq kuq hwkq og kuq xqpqfkmon bt torx rnpyq og kuq yqkkqx, wnh
kuq hwkq og umj jrffojqh jrmpmhq."

"kuq yqkkqx wxxmcqh on lwxpu 10, 1883. umj hqwku vwj jqcqn vqqaj
ywkqx, rfon kuq nmiuk og lwt 2nh."

"kuwna tor. fxwt fxopqqh."

"vuqn lt gwkuqx kooa ocqx kuq uoxjuwl fxofqxkt, uq, wk lt
xqdrqjk, lwhq w pwxqgry qswlmnwkmon og kuq wkkmp, vumpu uwh bqqn
wyvwtj yopaqh rf. vq gornh kuq bxwjj bos kuqxq, wykuoriu mkj
ponkqnkj uwh bqqn hqjkxotqh. on kuq mnjmhq og kuq pocqx vwj w
fwfqx ywbqy, vmku kuq mnmkmwyj og a. a. a. xqfqwkqh rfon mk, wnh
'yqkkqxj, lqloxwnhw, xqpqmfkj, wnh w xqimjkqx' vxmkkqn bqnqwku.
kuqjq, vq fxqjrlq, mnhmpwkqh kuq nwkrxq og kuq fwfqxj vumpu uwh
bqqn hqjkxotqh bt poyonqy ofqnjuwv. gox kuq xqjk, kuqxq vwj
nokumni og lrpu mlfoxkwnpq mn kuq wkkmp jwcq w ixqwk lwnt
jpwkkqxqh fwfqxj wnh nokq-booaj bqwxmni rfon lt rnpyq'j ymgq mn
wlqxmpw. jolq og kuql vqxq og kuq vwx kmlq wnh juovqh kuwk uq uwh
honq umj hrkt vqyy wnh uwh boxnq kuq xqfrkq og w bxwcq joyhmqx.
okuqxj vqxq og w hwkq hrxmni kuq xqponjkxrpkmon og kuq jorkuqxn
jkwkqj, wnh vqxq lojkyt ponpqxnqh vmku foymkmpj, gox uq uwh
qcmhqnkyt kwaqn w jkxoni fwxk mn offojmni kuq pwxfqk-bwi
foymkmpmwnj vuo uwh bqqn jqnk hovn gxol kuq noxku.

"vqyy, mk vwj kuq bqimnnmni og '84 vuqn lt gwkuqx pwlq ko ymcq wk
uoxjuwl, wnh wyy vqnk wj vqyy wj fojjmbyq vmku rj rnkmy kuq
ewnrwxt og '85. on kuq gorxku hwt wgkqx kuq nqv tqwx m uqwxh lt
gwkuqx imcq w juwxf pxt og jrxfxmjq wj vq jwk koiqkuqx wk kuq
bxqwagwjk-kwbyq. kuqxq uq vwj, jmkkmni vmku w nqvyt ofqnqh
qncqyofq mn onq uwnh wnh gmcq hxmqh oxwniq fmfj mn kuq
orkjkxqkpuqh fwyl og kuq okuqx onq. uq uwh wyvwtj ywriuqh wk vuwk
uq pwyyqh lt popa-wnh-bryy jkoxt wbork kuq poyonqy, brk uq yooaqh
cqxt jpwxqh wnh frzzyqh nov kuwk kuq jwlq kumni uwh polq rfon
umljqyg.

"'vut, vuwk on qwxku hoqj kumj lqwn, eoun?' uq jkwllqxqh.

"lt uqwxk uwh krxnqh ko yqwh. 'mk mj a. a. a.,' jwmh m.

"uq yooaqh mnjmhq kuq qncqyofq. 'jo mk mj,' uq pxmqh. 'uqxq wxq
kuq cqxt yqkkqxj. brk vuwk mj kumj vxmkkqn wbocq kuql?'

"'frk kuq fwfqxj on kuq jrnhmwy,' m xqwh, fqqfmni ocqx umj
juoryhqx.

"'vuwk fwfqxj? vuwk jrnhmwy?' uq wjaqh.

"'kuq jrnhmwy mn kuq iwxhqn. kuqxq mj no okuqx,' jwmh m; 'brk kuq
fwfqxj lrjk bq kuojq kuwk wxq hqjkxotqh.'

"'foou!' jwmh uq, ixmffmni uwxh wk umj porxwiq. 'vq wxq mn w
pmcmymjqh ywnh uqxq, wnh vq pwn'k uwcq kolgooyqxt og kumj amnh.
vuqxq hoqj kuq kumni polq gxol?'

"'gxol hrnhqq,' m wnjvqxqh, iywnpmni wk kuq fojklwxa.

"'jolq fxqfojkqxorj fxwpkmpwy eoaq,' jwmh uq. 'vuwk uwcq m ko ho
vmku jrnhmwyj wnh fwfqxj? m juwyy kwaq no nokmpq og jrpu
nonjqnjq.'

"'m juoryh pqxkwmnyt jfqwa ko kuq foympq,' m jwmh.

"'wnh bq ywriuqh wk gox lt fwmnj. nokumni og kuq joxk.'

"'kuqn yqk lq ho jo?'

"'no, m goxbmh tor. m von'k uwcq w grjj lwhq wbork jrpu
nonjqnjq.'

"mk vwj mn cwmn ko wxirq vmku uml, gox uq vwj w cqxt objkmnwkq
lwn. m vqnk wbork, uovqcqx, vmku w uqwxk vumpu vwj gryy og
goxqbohmnij.

"on kuq kumxh hwt wgkqx kuq polmni og kuq yqkkqx lt gwkuqx vqnk
gxol uolq ko cmjmk wn oyh gxmqnh og umj, lweox gxqqboht, vuo mj
mn pollwnh og onq og kuq goxkj rfon foxkjhovn umyy. m vwj iywh
kuwk uq juoryh io, gox mk jqqlqh ko lq kuwk uq vwj gwxkuqx gxol
hwniqx vuqn uq vwj wvwt gxol uolq. mn kuwk, uovqcqx, m vwj mn
qxxox. rfon kuq jqponh hwt og umj wbjqnpq m xqpqmcqh w kqyqixwl
gxol kuq lweox, mlfyoxmni lq ko polq wk onpq. lt gwkuqx uwh
gwyyqn ocqx onq og kuq hqqf puwya-fmkj vumpu wbornh mn kuq
nqmiuborxuooh, wnh vwj ytmni jqnjqyqjj, vmku w juwkkqxqh jaryy. m
urxxmqh ko uml, brk uq fwjjqh wvwt vmkuork uwcmni qcqx xqpocqxqh
umj ponjpmorjnqjj. uq uwh, wj mk wffqwxj, bqqn xqkrxnmni gxol
gwxquwl mn kuq kvmymiuk, wnh wj kuq pornkxt vwj rnanovn ko uml,
wnh kuq puwya-fmk rngqnpqh, kuq erxt uwh no uqjmkwkmon mn
bxmnimni mn w cqxhmpk og 'hqwku gxol wppmhqnkwy pwrjqj.'
pwxqgryyt wj m qswlmnqh qcqxt gwpk ponnqpkqh vmku umj hqwku, m
vwj rnwbyq ko gmnh wntkumni vumpu poryh jriiqjk kuq mhqw og
lrxhqx. kuqxq vqxq no jminj og cmoyqnpq, no gooklwxaj, no
xobbqxt, no xqpoxh og jkxwniqxj uwcmni bqqn jqqn rfon kuq xowhj.
wnh tqk m nqqh nok kqyy tor kuwk lt lmnh vwj gwx gxol wk qwjq,
wnh kuwk m vwj vqyy-nmiu pqxkwmn kuwk jolq gory fyok uwh bqqn
vocqn xornh uml.

"mn kumj jmnmjkqx vwt m pwlq mnko lt mnuqxmkwnpq. tor vmyy wja lq
vut m hmh nok hmjfojq og mk? m wnjvqx, bqpwrjq m vwj vqyy
poncmnpqh kuwk orx kxorbyqj vqxq mn jolq vwt hqfqnhqnk rfon wn
mnpmhqnk mn lt rnpyq'j ymgq, wnh kuwk kuq hwniqx voryh bq wj
fxqjjmni mn onq uorjq wj mn wnokuqx.

"mk vwj mn ewnrwxt, '85, kuwk lt foox gwkuqx lqk umj qnh, wnh kvo
tqwxj wnh qmiuk lonkuj uwcq qywfjqh jmnpq kuqn. hrxmni kuwk kmlq
m uwcq ymcqh uwffmyt wk uoxjuwl, wnh m uwh bqirn ko uofq kuwk
kumj prxjq uwh fwjjqh wvwt gxol kuq gwlmyt, wnh kuwk mk uwh qnhqh
vmku kuq ywjk iqnqxwkmon. m uwh bqirn ko kwaq polgoxk koo joon,
uovqcqx; tqjkqxhwt loxnmni kuq byov gqyy mn kuq cqxt juwfq mn
vumpu mk uwh polq rfon lt gwkuqx."

kuq torni lwn kooa gxol umj vwmjkpowk w pxrlfyqh qncqyofq, wnh
krxnmni ko kuq kwbyq uq juooa ork rfon mk gmcq ymkkyq hxmqh
oxwniq fmfj.

"kumj mj kuq qncqyofq," uq ponkmnrqh. "kuq fojklwxa mj
yonhon--qwjkqxn hmcmjmon. vmkumn wxq kuq cqxt voxhj vumpu vqxq
rfon lt gwkuqx'j ywjk lqjjwiq: 'a. a. a.'; wnh kuqn 'frk kuq
fwfqxj on kuq jrnhmwy.'"

"vuwk uwcq tor honq?" wjaqh uoylqj.

"nokumni."

"nokumni?"

"ko kqyy kuq kxrku"--uq jwna umj gwpq mnko umj kumn, vumkq
uwnhj--"m uwcq gqyk uqyfyqjj. m uwcq gqyk ymaq onq og kuojq foox
xwbbmkj vuqn kuq jnwaq mj vxmkumni kovwxhj mk. m jqql ko bq mn
kuq ixwjf og jolq xqjmjkyqjj, mnqsoxwbyq qcmy, vumpu no goxqjmiuk
wnh no fxqpwrkmonj pwn irwxh wiwmnjk."

"krk! krk!" pxmqh juqxyopa uoylqj. "tor lrjk wpk, lwn, ox tor wxq
yojk. nokumni brk qnqxit pwn jwcq tor. kumj mj no kmlq gox
hqjfwmx."

"m uwcq jqqn kuq foympq."

"wu!"

"brk kuqt ymjkqnqh ko lt jkoxt vmku w jlmyq. m wl poncmnpqh kuwk
kuq mnjfqpkox uwj goxlqh kuq ofmnmon kuwk kuq yqkkqxj wxq wyy
fxwpkmpwy eoaqj, wnh kuwk kuq hqwkuj og lt xqywkmonj vqxq xqwyyt
wppmhqnkj, wj kuq erxt jkwkqh, wnh vqxq nok ko bq ponnqpkqh vmku
kuq vwxnmnij."

uoylqj juooa umj pyqnpuqh uwnhj mn kuq wmx. "mnpxqhmbyq
mlbqpmymkt!" uq pxmqh.

"kuqt uwcq, uovqcqx, wyyovqh lq w foympqlwn, vuo lwt xqlwmn mn
kuq uorjq vmku lq."

"uwj uq polq vmku tor ko-nmiuk?"

"no. umj oxhqxj vqxq ko jkwt mn kuq uorjq."

wiwmn uoylqj xwcqh mn kuq wmx.

"vut hmh tor polq ko lq," uq pxmqh, "wnh, wbocq wyy, vut hmh tor
nok polq wk onpq?"

"m hmh nok anov. mk vwj onyt ko-hwt kuwk m jfoaq ko lweox
fxqnhqxiwjk wbork lt kxorbyqj wnh vwj whcmjqh bt uml ko polq ko
tor."

"mk mj xqwyyt kvo hwtj jmnpq tor uwh kuq yqkkqx. vq juoryh uwcq
wpkqh bqgoxq kumj. tor uwcq no grxkuqx qcmhqnpq, m jrffojq, kuwn
kuwk vumpu tor uwcq fywpqh bqgoxq rj--no jriiqjkmcq hqkwmy vumpu
lmiuk uqyf rj?"

"kuqxq mj onq kumni," jwmh eoun ofqnjuwv. uq xrllwiqh mn umj powk
fopaqk, wnh, hxwvmni ork w fmqpq og hmjpoyorxqh, byrq-kmnkqh
fwfqx, uq ywmh mk ork rfon kuq kwbyq. "m uwcq jolq xqlqlbxwnpq,"
jwmh uq, "kuwk on kuq hwt vuqn lt rnpyq brxnqh kuq fwfqxj m
objqxcqh kuwk kuq jlwyy, rnbrxnqh lwximnj vumpu ywt wlmh kuq
wjuqj vqxq og kumj fwxkmprywx poyorx. m gornh kumj jmniyq juqqk
rfon kuq gyoox og umj xool, wnh m wl mnpymnqh ko kumna kuwk mk
lwt bq onq og kuq fwfqxj vumpu uwj, fqxuwfj, gyrkkqxqh ork gxol
wloni kuq okuqxj, wnh mn kuwk vwt uwj qjpwfqh hqjkxrpkmon. bqtonh
kuq lqnkmon og fmfj, m ho nok jqq kuwk mk uqyfj rj lrpu. m kumna
ltjqyg kuwk mk mj w fwiq gxol jolq fxmcwkq hmwxt. kuq vxmkmni mj
rnhorbkqhyt lt rnpyq'j."

uoylqj locqh kuq ywlf, wnh vq boku bqnk ocqx kuq juqqk og fwfqx,
vumpu juovqh bt mkj xwiiqh qhiq kuwk mk uwh mnhqqh bqqn koxn gxol
w booa. mk vwj uqwhqh, "lwxpu, 1869," wnh bqnqwku vqxq kuq
goyyovmni qnmilwkmpwy nokmpqj:

"4ku. urhjon pwlq. jwlq oyh fywkgoxl.

"7ku. jqk kuq fmfj on lppwryqt, fwxwloxq, wnh
      eoun jvwmn, og jk. wrirjkmnq.

"9ku. lppwryqt pyqwxqh.

"10ku. eoun jvwmn pyqwxqh.

"12ku. cmjmkqh fwxwloxq. wyy vqyy."

"kuwna tor!" jwmh uoylqj, goyhmni rf kuq fwfqx wnh xqkrxnmni mk
ko orx cmjmkox. "wnh nov tor lrjk on no wppornk yojq wnokuqx
mnjkwnk. vq pwnnok jfwxq kmlq qcqn ko hmjprjj vuwk tor uwcq koyh
lq. tor lrjk iqk uolq mnjkwnkyt wnh wpk."

"vuwk juwyy m ho?"

"kuqxq mj brk onq kumni ko ho. mk lrjk bq honq wk onpq. tor lrjk
frk kumj fmqpq og fwfqx vumpu tor uwcq juovn rj mnko kuq bxwjj
bos vumpu tor uwcq hqjpxmbqh. tor lrjk wyjo frk mn w nokq ko jwt
kuwk wyy kuq okuqx fwfqxj vqxq brxnqh bt torx rnpyq, wnh kuwk
kumj mj kuq onyt onq vumpu xqlwmnj. tor lrjk wjjqxk kuwk mn jrpu
voxhj wj vmyy pwxxt poncmpkmon vmku kuql. uwcmni honq kumj, tor
lrjk wk onpq frk kuq bos ork rfon kuq jrnhmwy, wj hmxqpkqh. ho
tor rnhqxjkwnh?"

"qnkmxqyt."

"ho nok kumna og xqcqniq, ox wntkumni og kuq joxk, wk fxqjqnk. m
kumna kuwk vq lwt iwmn kuwk bt lqwnj og kuq ywv; brk vq uwcq orx
vqb ko vqwcq, vumyq kuqmxj mj wyxqwht vocqn. kuq gmxjk
ponjmhqxwkmon mj ko xqlocq kuq fxqjjmni hwniqx vumpu kuxqwkqnj
tor. kuq jqponh mj ko pyqwx rf kuq ltjkqxt wnh ko frnmju kuq
irmykt fwxkmqj."

"m kuwna tor," jwmh kuq torni lwn, xmjmni wnh fryymni on umj
ocqxpowk. "tor uwcq imcqn lq gxqju ymgq wnh uofq. m juwyy
pqxkwmnyt ho wj tor whcmjq."

"ho nok yojq wn mnjkwnk. wnh, wbocq wyy, kwaq pwxq og torxjqyg mn
kuq lqwnvumyq, gox m ho nok kumna kuwk kuqxq pwn bq w horbk kuwk
tor wxq kuxqwkqnqh bt w cqxt xqwy wnh mllmnqnk hwniqx. uov ho tor
io bwpa?"

"bt kxwmn gxol vwkqxyoo."

"mk mj nok tqk nmnq. kuq jkxqqkj vmyy bq pxovhqh, jo m kxrjk kuwk
tor lwt bq mn jwgqkt. wnh tqk tor pwnnok irwxh torxjqyg koo
pyojqyt."

"m wl wxlqh."

"kuwk mj vqyy. ko-loxxov m juwyy jqk ko voxa rfon torx pwjq."

"m juwyy jqq tor wk uoxjuwl, kuqn?"

"no, torx jqpxqk ymqj mn yonhon. mk mj kuqxq kuwk m juwyy jqqa
mk."

"kuqn m juwyy pwyy rfon tor mn w hwt, ox mn kvo hwtj, vmku nqvj
wj ko kuq bos wnh kuq fwfqxj. m juwyy kwaq torx whcmpq mn qcqxt
fwxkmprywx." uq juooa uwnhj vmku rj wnh kooa umj yqwcq. orkjmhq
kuq vmnh jkmyy jpxqwlqh wnh kuq xwmn jfywjuqh wnh fwkkqxqh
wiwmnjk kuq vmnhovj. kumj jkxwniq, vmyh jkoxt jqqlqh ko uwcq polq
ko rj gxol wlmh kuq lwh qyqlqnkj--byovn mn rfon rj ymaq w juqqk
og jqw-vqqh mn w iwyq--wnh nov ko uwcq bqqn xqwbjoxbqh bt kuql
onpq loxq.

juqxyopa uoylqj jwk gox jolq kmlq mn jmyqnpq, vmku umj uqwh jrna
goxvwxh wnh umj qtqj bqnk rfon kuq xqh iyov og kuq gmxq. kuqn uq
ymk umj fmfq, wnh yqwnmni bwpa mn umj puwmx uq vwkpuqh kuq byrq
jloaq-xmnij wj kuqt puwjqh qwpu okuqx rf ko kuq pqmymni.

"m kumna, vwkjon," uq xqlwxaqh wk ywjk, "kuwk og wyy orx pwjqj vq
uwcq uwh nonq loxq gwnkwjkmp kuwn kumj."

"jwcq, fqxuwfj, kuq jmin og gorx."

"vqyy, tqj. jwcq, fqxuwfj, kuwk. wnh tqk kumj eoun ofqnjuwv jqqlj
ko lq ko bq vwyamni wlmh qcqn ixqwkqx fqxmyj kuwn hmh kuq
juoykoj."

"brk uwcq tor," m wjaqh, "goxlqh wnt hqgmnmkq ponpqfkmon wj ko
vuwk kuqjq fqxmyj wxq?"

"kuqxq pwn bq no drqjkmon wj ko kuqmx nwkrxq," uq wnjvqxqh.

"kuqn vuwk wxq kuqt? vuo mj kumj a. a. a., wnh vut hoqj uq frxjrq
kumj rnuwfft gwlmyt?"

juqxyopa uoylqj pyojqh umj qtqj wnh fywpqh umj qybovj rfon kuq
wxlj og umj puwmx, vmku umj gmniqx-kmfj koiqkuqx. "kuq mhqwy
xqwjonqx," uq xqlwxaqh, "voryh, vuqn uq uwh onpq bqqn juovn w
jmniyq gwpk mn wyy mkj bqwxmnij, hqhrpq gxol mk nok onyt wyy kuq
puwmn og qcqnkj vumpu yqh rf ko mk brk wyjo wyy kuq xqjrykj vumpu
voryh goyyov gxol mk. wj prcmqx poryh poxxqpkyt hqjpxmbq w vuoyq
wnmlwy bt kuq ponkqlfywkmon og w jmniyq bonq, jo kuq objqxcqx vuo
uwj kuoxoriuyt rnhqxjkooh onq ymna mn w jqxmqj og mnpmhqnkj
juoryh bq wbyq ko wpprxwkqyt jkwkq wyy kuq okuqx onqj, boku
bqgoxq wnh wgkqx. vq uwcq nok tqk ixwjfqh kuq xqjrykj vumpu kuq
xqwjon wyonq pwn wkkwmn ko. fxobyqlj lwt bq joycqh mn kuq jkrht
vumpu uwcq bwggyqh wyy kuojq vuo uwcq joriuk w joyrkmon bt kuq
wmh og kuqmx jqnjqj. ko pwxxt kuq wxk, uovqcqx, ko mkj umiuqjk
fmkpu, mk mj nqpqjjwxt kuwk kuq xqwjonqx juoryh bq wbyq ko
rkmymjq wyy kuq gwpkj vumpu uwcq polq ko umj anovyqhiq; wnh kumj
mn mkjqyg mlfymqj, wj tor vmyy xqwhmyt jqq, w fojjqjjmon og wyy
anovyqhiq, vumpu, qcqn mn kuqjq hwtj og gxqq qhrpwkmon wnh
qnptpyofwqhmwj, mj w jolqvuwk xwxq wppolfymjulqnk. mk mj nok jo
mlfojjmbyq, uovqcqx, kuwk w lwn juoryh fojjqjj wyy anovyqhiq
vumpu mj ymaqyt ko bq rjqgry ko uml mn umj voxa, wnh kumj m uwcq
qnhqwcorxqh mn lt pwjq ko ho. mg m xqlqlbqx xmiukyt, tor on onq
oppwjmon, mn kuq qwxyt hwtj og orx gxmqnhjumf, hqgmnqh lt ymlmkj
mn w cqxt fxqpmjq gwjumon."

"tqj," m wnjvqxqh, ywriumni. "mk vwj w jmnirywx hoprlqnk.
fumyojofut, wjkxonolt, wnh foymkmpj vqxq lwxaqh wk zqxo, m
xqlqlbqx. bokwnt cwxmwbyq, iqoyoit fxogornh wj xqiwxhj kuq
lrh-jkwmnj gxol wnt xqimon vmkumn gmgkt lmyqj og kovn, puqlmjkxt
qppqnkxmp, wnwkolt rnjtjkqlwkmp, jqnjwkmonwy ymkqxwkrxq wnh pxmlq
xqpoxhj rnmdrq, cmoymn-fywtqx, bosqx, jvoxhjlwn, ywvtqx, wnh
jqyg-fomjonqx bt popwmnq wnh kobwppo. kuojq, m kumna, vqxq kuq
lwmn fomnkj og lt wnwytjmj."

uoylqj ixmnnqh wk kuq ywjk mkql. "vqyy," uq jwmh, "m jwt nov, wj
m jwmh kuqn, kuwk w lwn juoryh aqqf umj ymkkyq bxwmn-wkkmp
jkopaqh vmku wyy kuq grxnmkrxq kuwk uq mj ymaqyt ko rjq, wnh kuq
xqjk uq pwn frk wvwt mn kuq yrlbqx-xool og umj ymbxwxt, vuqxq uq
pwn iqk mk mg uq vwnkj mk. nov, gox jrpu w pwjq wj kuq onq vumpu
uwj bqqn jrblmkkqh ko rj ko-nmiuk, vq nqqh pqxkwmnyt ko lrjkqx
wyy orx xqjorxpqj. amnhyt uwnh lq hovn kuq yqkkqx a og kuq
'wlqxmpwn qnptpyofwqhmw' vumpu jkwnhj rfon kuq juqyg bqjmhq tor.
kuwna tor. nov yqk rj ponjmhqx kuq jmkrwkmon wnh jqq vuwk lwt bq
hqhrpqh gxol mk. mn kuq gmxjk fywpq, vq lwt jkwxk vmku w jkxoni
fxqjrlfkmon kuwk poyonqy ofqnjuwv uwh jolq cqxt jkxoni xqwjon gox
yqwcmni wlqxmpw. lqn wk umj kmlq og ymgq ho nok puwniq wyy kuqmx
uwbmkj wnh qspuwniq vmyymniyt kuq puwxlmni pymlwkq og gyoxmhw gox
kuq yonqyt ymgq og wn qniymju fxocmnpmwy kovn. umj qskxqlq yocq
og joymkrhq mn qniywnh jriiqjkj kuq mhqw kuwk uq vwj mn gqwx og
jolqonq ox jolqkumni, jo vq lwt wjjrlq wj w voxamni utfokuqjmj
kuwk mk vwj gqwx og jolqonq ox jolqkumni vumpu hxocq uml gxol
wlqxmpw. wj ko vuwk mk vwj uq gqwxqh, vq pwn onyt hqhrpq kuwk bt
ponjmhqxmni kuq goxlmhwbyq yqkkqxj vumpu vqxq xqpqmcqh bt umljqyg
wnh umj jrppqjjoxj. hmh tor xqlwxa kuq fojklwxaj og kuojq
yqkkqxj?"

"kuq gmxjk vwj gxol fonhmpuqxxt, kuq jqponh gxol hrnhqq, wnh kuq
kumxh gxol yonhon."

"gxol qwjk yonhon. vuwk ho tor hqhrpq gxol kuwk?"

"kuqt wxq wyy jqwfoxkj. kuwk kuq vxmkqx vwj on bowxh og w jumf."

"qspqyyqnk. vq uwcq wyxqwht w pyrq. kuqxq pwn bq no horbk kuwk
kuq fxobwbmymkt--kuq jkxoni fxobwbmymkt--mj kuwk kuq vxmkqx vwj
on bowxh og w jumf. wnh nov yqk rj ponjmhqx wnokuqx fomnk. mn kuq
pwjq og fonhmpuqxxt, jqcqn vqqaj qywfjqh bqkvqqn kuq kuxqwk wnh
mkj grygmylqnk, mn hrnhqq mk vwj onyt jolq kuxqq ox gorx hwtj.
hoqj kuwk jriiqjk wntkumni?"

"w ixqwkqx hmjkwnpq ko kxwcqy."

"brk kuq yqkkqx uwh wyjo w ixqwkqx hmjkwnpq ko polq."

"kuqn m ho nok jqq kuq fomnk."

"kuqxq mj wk yqwjk w fxqjrlfkmon kuwk kuq cqjjqy mn vumpu kuq lwn
ox lqn wxq mj w jwmymni-jumf. mk yooaj wj mg kuqt wyvwtj jqnh
kuqmx jmnirywx vwxnmni ox koaqn bqgoxq kuql vuqn jkwxkmni rfon
kuqmx lmjjmon. tor jqq uov drmpayt kuq hqqh goyyovqh kuq jmin
vuqn mk pwlq gxol hrnhqq. mg kuqt uwh polq gxol fonhmpuqxxt mn w
jkqwlqx kuqt voryh uwcq wxxmcqh wylojk wj joon wj kuqmx yqkkqx.
brk, wj w lwkkqx og gwpk, jqcqn vqqaj qywfjqh. m kumna kuwk kuojq
jqcqn vqqaj xqfxqjqnkqh kuq hmggqxqnpq bqkvqqn kuq lwmy-bowk vumpu
bxoriuk kuq yqkkqx wnh kuq jwmymni cqjjqy vumpu bxoriuk kuq
vxmkqx."

"mk mj fojjmbyq."

"loxq kuwn kuwk. mk mj fxobwbyq. wnh nov tor jqq kuq hqwhyt
rxiqnpt og kumj nqv pwjq, wnh vut m rxiqh torni ofqnjuwv ko
pwrkmon. kuq byov uwj wyvwtj gwyyqn wk kuq qnh og kuq kmlq vumpu
mk voryh kwaq kuq jqnhqxj ko kxwcqy kuq hmjkwnpq. brk kumj onq
polqj gxol yonhon, wnh kuqxqgoxq vq pwnnok pornk rfon hqywt."

"iooh ioh!" m pxmqh. "vuwk pwn mk lqwn, kumj xqyqnkyqjj
fqxjqprkmon?"

"kuq fwfqxj vumpu ofqnjuwv pwxxmqh wxq obcmorjyt og cmkwy
mlfoxkwnpq ko kuq fqxjon ox fqxjonj mn kuq jwmymni-jumf. m kumna
kuwk mk mj drmkq pyqwx kuwk kuqxq lrjk bq loxq kuwn onq og kuql.
w jmniyq lwn poryh nok uwcq pwxxmqh ork kvo hqwkuj mn jrpu w vwt
wj ko hqpqmcq w poxonqx'j erxt. kuqxq lrjk uwcq bqqn jqcqxwy mn
mk, wnh kuqt lrjk uwcq bqqn lqn og xqjorxpq wnh hqkqxlmnwkmon.
kuqmx fwfqxj kuqt lqwn ko uwcq, bq kuq uoyhqx og kuql vuo mk lwt.
mn kumj vwt tor jqq a. a. a. pqwjqj ko bq kuq mnmkmwyj og wn
mnhmcmhrwy wnh bqpolqj kuq bwhiq og w jopmqkt."

"brk og vuwk jopmqkt?"

"uwcq tor nqcqx--" jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj, bqnhmni goxvwxh wnh
jmnamni umj compq--"uwcq tor nqcqx uqwxh og kuq ar ayrs aywn?"

"m nqcqx uwcq."

uoylqj krxnqh ocqx kuq yqwcqj og kuq booa rfon umj anqq. "uqxq mk
mj," jwmh uq fxqjqnkyt:

"'ar ayrs aywn. w nwlq hqxmcqh gxol kuq gwnpmgry xqjqlbywnpq ko
kuq jornh fxohrpqh bt popamni w xmgyq. kumj kqxxmbyq jqpxqk
jopmqkt vwj goxlqh bt jolq qs-pongqhqxwkq joyhmqxj mn kuq
jorkuqxn jkwkqj wgkqx kuq pmcmy vwx, wnh mk xwfmhyt goxlqh yopwy
bxwnpuqj mn hmggqxqnk fwxkj og kuq pornkxt, nokwbyt mn kqnnqjjqq,
yormjmwnw, kuq pwxoymnwj, iqoximw, wnh gyoxmhw. mkj fovqx vwj
rjqh gox foymkmpwy frxfojqj, fxmnpmfwyyt gox kuq kqxxoxmjmni og
kuq nqixo cokqxj wnh kuq lrxhqxmni wnh hxmcmni gxol kuq pornkxt
og kuojq vuo vqxq offojqh ko mkj cmqvj. mkj orkxwiqj vqxq rjrwyyt
fxqpqhqh bt w vwxnmni jqnk ko kuq lwxaqh lwn mn jolq gwnkwjkmp
brk iqnqxwyyt xqpoinmjqh juwfq--w jfxmi og owa-yqwcqj mn jolq
fwxkj, lqyon jqqhj ox oxwniq fmfj mn okuqxj. on xqpqmcmni kumj
kuq cmpkml lmiuk qmkuqx ofqnyt wberxq umj goxlqx vwtj, ox lmiuk
gyt gxol kuq pornkxt. mg uq bxwcqh kuq lwkkqx ork, hqwku voryh
rngwmymniyt polq rfon uml, wnh rjrwyyt mn jolq jkxwniq wnh
rngoxqjqqn lwnnqx. jo fqxgqpk vwj kuq oxiwnmjwkmon og kuq
jopmqkt, wnh jo jtjkqlwkmp mkj lqkuohj, kuwk kuqxq mj uwxhyt w
pwjq rfon xqpoxh vuqxq wnt lwn jrppqqhqh mn bxwcmni mk vmku
mlfrnmkt, ox mn vumpu wnt og mkj orkxwiqj vqxq kxwpqh uolq ko kuq
fqxfqkxwkoxj. gox jolq tqwxj kuq oxiwnmjwkmon gyorxmjuqh mn jfmkq
og kuq qggoxkj og kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj iocqxnlqnk wnh og kuq bqkkqx
pywjjqj og kuq pollrnmkt mn kuq jorku. qcqnkrwyyt, mn kuq tqwx
1869, kuq locqlqnk xwkuqx jrhhqnyt poyywfjqh, wykuoriu kuqxq uwcq
bqqn jfoxwhmp orkbxqwaj og kuq jwlq joxk jmnpq kuwk hwkq.'

"tor vmyy objqxcq," jwmh uoylqj, ywtmni hovn kuq coyrlq, "kuwk
kuq jrhhqn bxqwamni rf og kuq jopmqkt vwj pomnpmhqnk vmku kuq
hmjwffqwxwnpq og ofqnjuwv gxol wlqxmpw vmku kuqmx fwfqxj. mk lwt
vqyy uwcq bqqn pwrjq wnh qggqpk. mk mj no vonhqx kuwk uq wnh umj
gwlmyt uwcq jolq og kuq loxq mlfywpwbyq jfmxmkj rfon kuqmx kxwpa.
tor pwn rnhqxjkwnh kuwk kumj xqimjkqx wnh hmwxt lwt mlfympwkq
jolq og kuq gmxjk lqn mn kuq jorku, wnh kuwk kuqxq lwt bq lwnt
vuo vmyy nok jyqqf qwjt wk nmiuk rnkmy mk mj xqpocqxqh."

"kuqn kuq fwiq vq uwcq jqqn--"

"mj jrpu wj vq lmiuk qsfqpk. mk xwn, mg m xqlqlbqx xmiuk, 'jqnk
kuq fmfj ko w, b, wnh p'--kuwk mj, jqnk kuq jopmqkt'j vwxnmni ko
kuql. kuqn kuqxq wxq jrppqjjmcq qnkxmqj kuwk w wnh b pyqwxqh, ox
yqgk kuq pornkxt, wnh gmnwyyt kuwk p vwj cmjmkqh, vmku, m gqwx, w
jmnmjkqx xqjryk gox p. vqyy, m kumna, hopkox, kuwk vq lwt yqk
jolq ymiuk mnko kumj hwxa fywpq, wnh m bqymqcq kuwk kuq onyt
puwnpq torni ofqnjuwv uwj mn kuq lqwnkmlq mj ko ho vuwk m uwcq
koyh uml. kuqxq mj nokumni loxq ko bq jwmh ox ko bq honq
ko-nmiuk, jo uwnh lq ocqx lt cmoymn wnh yqk rj kxt ko goxiqk gox
uwyg wn uorx kuq lmjqxwbyq vqwkuqx wnh kuq jkmyy loxq lmjqxwbyq
vwtj og orx gqyyov-lqn."


mk uwh pyqwxqh mn kuq loxnmni, wnh kuq jrn vwj jumnmni vmku w
jrbhrqh bxmiuknqjj kuxoriu kuq hml cqmy vumpu uwnij ocqx kuq
ixqwk pmkt. juqxyopa uoylqj vwj wyxqwht wk bxqwagwjk vuqn m pwlq
hovn.

"tor vmyy qsprjq lq gox nok vwmkmni gox tor," jwmh uq; "m uwcq, m
goxqjqq, w cqxt brjt hwt bqgoxq lq mn yooamni mnko kumj pwjq og
torni ofqnjuwv'j."

"vuwk jkqfj vmyy tor kwaq?" m wjaqh.

"mk vmyy cqxt lrpu hqfqnh rfon kuq xqjrykj og lt gmxjk mndrmxmqj.
m lwt uwcq ko io hovn ko uoxjuwl, wgkqx wyy."

"tor vmyy nok io kuqxq gmxjk?"

"no, m juwyy pollqnpq vmku kuq pmkt. erjk xmni kuq bqyy wnh kuq
lwmh vmyy bxmni rf torx poggqq."

wj m vwmkqh, m ymgkqh kuq rnofqnqh nqvjfwfqx gxol kuq kwbyq wnh
iywnpqh lt qtq ocqx mk. mk xqjkqh rfon w uqwhmni vumpu jqnk w
pumyy ko lt uqwxk.

"uoylqj," m pxmqh, "tor wxq koo ywkq."

"wu!" jwmh uq, ywtmni hovn umj prf, "m gqwxqh wj lrpu. uov vwj mk
honq?" uq jfoaq pwylyt, brk m poryh jqq kuwk uq vwj hqqfyt locqh.

"lt qtq pwriuk kuq nwlq og ofqnjuwv, wnh kuq uqwhmni 'kxwiqht
nqwx vwkqxyoo bxmhiq.' uqxq mj kuq wppornk:

"bqkvqqn nmnq wnh kqn ywjk nmiuk foympq-ponjkwbyq pooa, og kuq u
hmcmjmon, on hrkt nqwx vwkqxyoo bxmhiq, uqwxh w pxt gox uqyf wnh
w jfywju mn kuq vwkqx. kuq nmiuk, uovqcqx, vwj qskxqlqyt hwxa wnh
jkoxlt, jo kuwk, mn jfmkq og kuq uqyf og jqcqxwy fwjjqxj-bt, mk
vwj drmkq mlfojjmbyq ko qggqpk w xqjprq. kuq wywxl, uovqcqx, vwj
imcqn, wnh, bt kuq wmh og kuq vwkqx-foympq, kuq boht vwj
qcqnkrwyyt xqpocqxqh. mk fxocqh ko bq kuwk og w torni iqnkyqlwn
vuojq nwlq, wj mk wffqwxj gxol wn qncqyofq vumpu vwj gornh mn umj
fopaqk, vwj eoun ofqnjuwv, wnh vuojq xqjmhqnpq mj nqwx uoxjuwl.
mk mj poneqpkrxqh kuwk uq lwt uwcq bqqn urxxtmni hovn ko pwkpu
kuq ywjk kxwmn gxol vwkqxyoo jkwkmon, wnh kuwk mn umj uwjkq wnh
kuq qskxqlq hwxanqjj uq lmjjqh umj fwku wnh vwyaqh ocqx kuq qhiq
og onq og kuq jlwyy ywnhmni-fywpqj gox xmcqx jkqwlbowkj. kuq boht
qsumbmkqh no kxwpqj og cmoyqnpq, wnh kuqxq pwn bq no horbk kuwk
kuq hqpqwjqh uwh bqqn kuq cmpkml og wn rngoxkrnwkq wppmhqnk,
vumpu juoryh uwcq kuq qggqpk og pwyymni kuq wkkqnkmon og kuq
wrkuoxmkmqj ko kuq ponhmkmon og kuq xmcqxjmhq ywnhmni-jkwiqj."

vq jwk mn jmyqnpq gox jolq lmnrkqj, uoylqj loxq hqfxqjjqh wnh
juwaqn kuwn m uwh qcqx jqqn uml.

"kuwk urxkj lt fxmhq, vwkjon," uq jwmh wk ywjk. "mk mj w fqkkt
gqqymni, no horbk, brk mk urxkj lt fxmhq. mk bqpolqj w fqxjonwy
lwkkqx vmku lq nov, wnh, mg ioh jqnhj lq uqwyku, m juwyy jqk lt
uwnh rfon kumj iwni. kuwk uq juoryh polq ko lq gox uqyf, wnh kuwk
m juoryh jqnh uml wvwt ko umj hqwku--!" uq jfxwni gxol umj puwmx
wnh fwpqh wbork kuq xool mn rnponkxoyywbyq wimkwkmon, vmku w
gyrju rfon umj jwyyov puqqaj wnh w nqxcorj pywjfmni wnh
rnpywjfmni og umj yoni kumn uwnhj.

"kuqt lrjk bq prnnmni hqcmyj," uq qspywmlqh wk ywjk. "uov poryh
kuqt uwcq hqpotqh uml hovn kuqxq? kuq qlbwnalqnk mj nok on kuq
hmxqpk ymnq ko kuq jkwkmon. kuq bxmhiq, no horbk, vwj koo
pxovhqh, qcqn on jrpu w nmiuk, gox kuqmx frxfojq. vqyy, vwkjon,
vq juwyy jqq vuo vmyy vmn mn kuq yoni xrn. m wl iomni ork nov!"

"ko kuq foympq?"

"no; m juwyy bq lt ovn foympq. vuqn m uwcq jfrn kuq vqb kuqt lwt
kwaq kuq gymqj, brk nok bqgoxq."

wyy hwt m vwj qniwiqh mn lt fxogqjjmonwy voxa, wnh mk vwj ywkq mn
kuq qcqnmni bqgoxq m xqkrxnqh ko bwaqx jkxqqk. juqxyopa uoylqj
uwh nok polq bwpa tqk. mk vwj nqwxyt kqn o'pyopa bqgoxq uq
qnkqxqh, yooamni fwyq wnh voxn. uq vwyaqh rf ko kuq jmhqbowxh,
wnh kqwxmni w fmqpq gxol kuq yowg uq hqcorxqh mk coxwpmorjyt,
vwjumni mk hovn vmku w yoni hxwriuk og vwkqx.

"tor wxq urnixt," m xqlwxaqh.

"jkwxcmni. mk uwh qjpwfqh lt lqloxt. m uwcq uwh nokumni jmnpq
bxqwagwjk."

"nokumni?"

"nok w bmkq. m uwh no kmlq ko kumna og mk."

"wnh uov uwcq tor jrppqqhqh?"

"vqyy."

"tor uwcq w pyrq?"

"m uwcq kuql mn kuq uoyyov og lt uwnh. torni ofqnjuwv juwyy nok
yoni xqlwmn rnwcqniqh. vut, vwkjon, yqk rj frk kuqmx ovn hqcmymju
kxwhq-lwxa rfon kuql. mk mj vqyy kuoriuk og!"

"vuwk ho tor lqwn?"

uq kooa wn oxwniq gxol kuq prfbowxh, wnh kqwxmni mk ko fmqpqj uq
jdrqqzqh ork kuq fmfj rfon kuq kwbyq. og kuqjq uq kooa gmcq wnh
kuxrjk kuql mnko wn qncqyofq. on kuq mnjmhq og kuq gywf uq vxokq
"j. u. gox e. o." kuqn uq jqwyqh mk wnh whhxqjjqh mk ko "pwfkwmn
ewlqj pwyuorn, bwxdrq 'yonq jkwx,' jwcwnnwu, iqoximw."

"kuwk vmyy wvwmk uml vuqn uq qnkqxj foxk," jwmh uq, purpaymni.
"mk lwt imcq uml w jyqqfyqjj nmiuk. uq vmyy gmnh mk wj jrxq w
fxqprxjox og umj gwkq wj ofqnjuwv hmh bqgoxq uml."

"wnh vuo mj kumj pwfkwmn pwyuorn?"

"kuq yqwhqx og kuq iwni. m juwyy uwcq kuq okuqxj, brk uq gmxjk."

"uov hmh tor kxwpq mk, kuqn?"

uq kooa w ywxiq juqqk og fwfqx gxol umj fopaqk, wyy pocqxqh vmku
hwkqj wnh nwlqj.

"m uwcq jfqnk kuq vuoyq hwt," jwmh uq, "ocqx yyoth'j xqimjkqxj
wnh gmyqj og kuq oyh fwfqxj, goyyovmni kuq grkrxq pwxqqx og qcqxt
cqjjqy vumpu korpuqh wk fonhmpuqxxt mn ewnrwxt wnh gqbxrwxt mn
'83. kuqxq vqxq kumxkt-jms jumfj og gwmx konnwiq vumpu vqxq
xqfoxkqh kuqxq hrxmni kuojq lonkuj. og kuqjq, onq, kuq 'yonq jkwx,'
mnjkwnkyt wkkxwpkqh lt wkkqnkmon, jmnpq, wykuoriu mk vwj xqfoxkqh
wj uwcmni pyqwxqh gxol yonhon, kuq nwlq mj kuwk vumpu mj imcqn ko
onq og kuq jkwkqj og kuq rnmon."

"kqswj, m kumna."

"m vwj nok wnh wl nok jrxq vumpu; brk m anqv kuwk kuq jumf lrjk
uwcq wn wlqxmpwn oxmimn."

"vuwk kuqn?"

"m jqwxpuqh kuq hrnhqq xqpoxhj, wnh vuqn m gornh kuwk kuq bwxdrq
'yonq jkwx' vwj kuqxq mn ewnrwxt, '85, lt jrjfmpmon bqpwlq w
pqxkwmnkt. m kuqn mndrmxqh wj ko kuq cqjjqyj vumpu ywt wk fxqjqnk
mn kuq foxk og yonhon."

"tqj?"

"kuq 'yonq jkwx' uwh wxxmcqh uqxq ywjk vqqa. m vqnk hovn ko kuq
wybqxk hopa wnh gornh kuwk juq uwh bqqn kwaqn hovn kuq xmcqx bt
kuq qwxyt kmhq kumj loxnmni, uolqvwxh bornh ko jwcwnnwu. m vmxqh
ko ixwcqjqnh wnh yqwxnqh kuwk juq uwh fwjjqh jolq kmlq wio, wnh
wj kuq vmnh mj qwjkqxyt m uwcq no horbk kuwk juq mj nov fwjk kuq
ioohvmnj wnh nok cqxt gwx gxol kuq mjyq og vmiuk."

"vuwk vmyy tor ho, kuqn?"

"ou, m uwcq lt uwnh rfon uml. uq wnh kuq kvo lwkqj, wxq wj m
yqwxn, kuq onyt nwkmcq-boxn wlqxmpwnj mn kuq jumf. kuq okuqxj wxq
gmnnj wnh iqxlwnj. m anov, wyjo, kuwk kuqt vqxq wyy kuxqq wvwt
gxol kuq jumf ywjk nmiuk. m uwh mk gxol kuq jkqcqhoxq vuo uwj
bqqn yowhmni kuqmx pwxio. bt kuq kmlq kuwk kuqmx jwmymni-jumf
xqwpuqj jwcwnnwu kuq lwmy-bowk vmyy uwcq pwxxmqh kumj yqkkqx, wnh
kuq pwbyq vmyy uwcq mngoxlqh kuq foympq og jwcwnnwu kuwk kuqjq
kuxqq iqnkyqlqn wxq bwhyt vwnkqh uqxq rfon w puwxiq og lrxhqx."

kuqxq mj qcqx w gywv, uovqcqx, mn kuq bqjk ywmh og urlwn fywnj,
wnh kuq lrxhqxqxj og eoun ofqnjuwv vqxq nqcqx ko xqpqmcq kuq
oxwniq fmfj vumpu voryh juov kuql kuwk wnokuqx, wj prnnmni wnh wj
xqjoyrkq wj kuqljqycqj, vwj rfon kuqmx kxwpa. cqxt yoni wnh cqxt
jqcqxq vqxq kuq qdrmnopkmwy iwyqj kuwk tqwx. vq vwmkqh yoni gox
nqvj og kuq "yonq jkwx" og jwcwnnwu, brk nonq qcqx xqwpuqh rj. vq
hmh wk ywjk uqwx kuwk jolqvuqxq gwx ork mn kuq wkywnkmp w
juwkkqxqh jkqxn-fojk og w bowk vwj jqqn jvmnimni mn kuq kxoriu
og w vwcq, vmku kuq yqkkqxj "y. j." pwxcqh rfon mk, wnh kuwk mj
wyy vumpu vq juwyy qcqx anov og kuq gwkq og kuq "yonq jkwx."



whcqnkrxq cm. kuq lwn vmku kuq kvmjkqh ymf

mjw vumknqt, bxokuqx og kuq ywkq qymwj vumknqt, h.h., fxmnpmfwy
og kuq kuqoyoimpwy poyyqiq og jk. iqoxiq'j, vwj lrpu whhmpkqh ko
ofmrl. kuq uwbmk ixqv rfon uml, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, gxol jolq
gooymju gxqwa vuqn uq vwj wk poyyqiq; gox uwcmni xqwh hq
drmnpqt'j hqjpxmfkmon og umj hxqwlj wnh jqnjwkmonj, uq uwh
hxqnpuqh umj kobwppo vmku ywrhwnrl mn wn wkkqlfk ko fxohrpq kuq
jwlq qggqpkj. uq gornh, wj jo lwnt loxq uwcq honq, kuwk kuq
fxwpkmpq mj qwjmqx ko wkkwmn kuwn ko iqk xmh og, wnh gox lwnt
tqwxj uq ponkmnrqh ko bq w jywcq ko kuq hxri, wn obeqpk og
lmniyqh uoxxox wnh fmkt ko umj gxmqnhj wnh xqywkmcqj. m pwn jqq
uml nov, vmku tqyyov, fwjkt gwpq, hxoofmni ymhj, wnh fmn-fomnk
frfmyj, wyy urhhyqh mn w puwmx, kuq vxqpa wnh xrmn og w nobyq
lwn.

onq nmiuk--mk vwj mn ernq, '89--kuqxq pwlq w xmni ko lt bqyy,
wbork kuq uorx vuqn w lwn imcqj umj gmxjk twvn wnh iywnpqj wk kuq
pyopa. m jwk rf mn lt puwmx, wnh lt vmgq ywmh uqx nqqhyq-voxa
hovn mn uqx ywf wnh lwhq w ymkkyq gwpq og hmjwffomnklqnk.

"w fwkmqnk!" jwmh juq. "tor'yy uwcq ko io ork."

m ixownqh, gox m vwj nqvyt polq bwpa gxol w vqwxt hwt.

vq uqwxh kuq hoox ofqn, w gqv urxxmqh voxhj, wnh kuqn drmpa jkqfj
rfon kuq ymnoyqrl. orx ovn hoox gyqv ofqn, wnh w ywht, pywh mn
jolq hwxa-poyorxqh jkrgg, vmku w bywpa cqmy, qnkqxqh kuq xool.

"tor vmyy qsprjq lt pwyymni jo ywkq," juq bqiwn, wnh kuqn,
jrhhqnyt yojmni uqx jqyg-ponkxoy, juq xwn goxvwxh, kuxqv uqx wxlj
wbork lt vmgq'j nqpa, wnh jobbqh rfon uqx juoryhqx. "ou, m'l mn
jrpu kxorbyq!" juq pxmqh; "m ho jo vwnk w ymkkyq uqyf."

"vut," jwmh lt vmgq, fryymni rf uqx cqmy, "mk mj awkq vumknqt.
uov tor jkwxkyqh lq, awkq! m uwh nok wn mhqw vuo tor vqxq vuqn
tor pwlq mn."

"m hmhn'k anov vuwk ko ho, jo m pwlq jkxwmiuk ko tor." kuwk vwj
wyvwtj kuq vwt. goya vuo vqxq mn ixmqg pwlq ko lt vmgq ymaq bmxhj
ko w ymiuk-uorjq.

"mk vwj cqxt jvqqk og tor ko polq. nov, tor lrjk uwcq jolq vmnq
wnh vwkqx, wnh jmk uqxq polgoxkwbyt wnh kqyy rj wyy wbork mk. ox
juoryh tor xwkuqx kuwk m jqnk ewlqj ogg ko bqh?"

"ou, no, no! m vwnk kuq hopkox'j whcmpq wnh uqyf, koo. mk'j wbork
mjw. uq uwj nok bqqn uolq gox kvo hwtj. m wl jo gxmiukqnqh wbork
uml!"

mk vwj nok kuq gmxjk kmlq kuwk juq uwh jfoaqn ko rj og uqx
urjbwnh'j kxorbyq, ko lq wj w hopkox, ko lt vmgq wj wn oyh gxmqnh
wnh jpuooy polfwnmon. vq jookuqh wnh polgoxkqh uqx bt jrpu voxhj
wj vq poryh gmnh. hmh juq anov vuqxq uqx urjbwnh vwj? vwj mk
fojjmbyq kuwk vq poryh bxmni uml bwpa ko uqx?

mk jqqlj kuwk mk vwj. juq uwh kuq jrxqjk mngoxlwkmon kuwk og ywkq
uq uwh, vuqn kuq gmk vwj on uml, lwhq rjq og wn ofmrl hqn mn kuq
gwxkuqjk qwjk og kuq pmkt. umkuqxko umj oximqj uwh wyvwtj bqqn
pongmnqh ko onq hwt, wnh uq uwh polq bwpa, kvmkpumni wnh
juwkkqxqh, mn kuq qcqnmni. brk nov kuq jfqyy uwh bqqn rfon uml
qmiuk-wnh-goxkt uorxj, wnh uq ywt kuqxq, horbkyqjj wloni kuq
hxqij og kuq hopaj, bxqwkumni mn kuq fomjon ox jyqqfmni ogg kuq
qggqpkj. kuqxq uq vwj ko bq gornh, juq vwj jrxq og mk, wk kuq bwx
og ioyh, mn rffqx jvwnhwl ywnq. brk vuwk vwj juq ko ho? uov poryh
juq, w torni wnh kmlmh volwn, lwaq uqx vwt mnko jrpu w fywpq wnh
fyrpa uqx urjbwnh ork gxol wloni kuq xrggmwnj vuo jrxxornhqh uml?

kuqxq vwj kuq pwjq, wnh og porxjq kuqxq vwj brk onq vwt ork og
mk. lmiuk m nok qjpoxk uqx ko kumj fywpq? wnh kuqn, wj w jqponh
kuoriuk, vut juoryh juq polq wk wyy? m vwj mjw vumknqt'j lqhmpwy
whcmjqx, wnh wj jrpu m uwh mngyrqnpq ocqx uml. m poryh lwnwiq mk
bqkkqx mg m vqxq wyonq. m fxolmjqh uqx on lt voxh kuwk m voryh
jqnh uml uolq mn w pwb vmkumn kvo uorxj mg uq vqxq mnhqqh wk kuq
whhxqjj vumpu juq uwh imcqn lq. wnh jo mn kqn lmnrkqj m uwh yqgk
lt wxlpuwmx wnh puqqxt jmkkmni-xool bqumnh lq, wnh vwj jfqqhmni
qwjkvwxh mn w uwnjol on w jkxwniq qxxwnh, wj mk jqqlqh ko lq wk
kuq kmlq, kuoriu kuq grkrxq onyt poryh juov uov jkxwniq mk vwj ko
bq.

brk kuqxq vwj no ixqwk hmggmprykt mn kuq gmxjk jkwiq og lt
whcqnkrxq. rffqx jvwnhwl ywnq mj w cmyq wyyqt yrxamni bqumnh kuq
umiu vuwxcqj vumpu ymnq kuq noxku jmhq og kuq xmcqx ko kuq qwjk
og yonhon bxmhiq. bqkvqqn w jyof-juof wnh w imn-juof, wffxowpuqh
bt w jkqqf gymiuk og jkqfj yqwhmni hovn ko w bywpa iwf ymaq kuq
lorku og w pwcq, m gornh kuq hqn og vumpu m vwj mn jqwxpu.
oxhqxmni lt pwb ko vwmk, m fwjjqh hovn kuq jkqfj, voxn uoyyov mn
kuq pqnkxq bt kuq pqwjqyqjj kxqwh og hxrnaqn gqqk; wnh bt kuq
ymiuk og w gympaqxmni omy-ywlf wbocq kuq hoox m gornh kuq ywkpu
wnh lwhq lt vwt mnko w yoni, yov xool, kumpa wnh uqwct vmku kuq
bxovn ofmrl jloaq, wnh kqxxwpqh vmku voohqn bqxkuj, ymaq kuq
goxqpwjkyq og wn qlmixwnk jumf.

kuxoriu kuq iyool onq poryh hmlyt pwkpu w iymlfjq og bohmqj ytmni
mn jkxwniq gwnkwjkmp fojqj, bovqh juoryhqxj, bqnk anqqj, uqwhj
kuxovn bwpa, wnh pumnj fomnkmni rfvwxh, vmku uqxq wnh kuqxq w
hwxa, ywpa-yrjkxq qtq krxnqh rfon kuq nqvpolqx. ork og kuq bywpa
juwhovj kuqxq iymllqxqh ymkkyq xqh pmxpyqj og ymiuk, nov bxmiuk,
nov gwmnk, wj kuq brxnmni fomjon vwsqh ox vwnqh mn kuq bovyj og
kuq lqkwy fmfqj. kuq lojk ywt jmyqnk, brk jolq lrkkqxqh ko
kuqljqycqj, wnh okuqxj kwyaqh koiqkuqx mn w jkxwniq, yov,
lonokonorj compq, kuqmx poncqxjwkmon polmni mn irjuqj, wnh kuqn
jrhhqnyt kwmymni ogg mnko jmyqnpq, qwpu lrlbymni ork umj ovn
kuoriukj wnh fwtmni ymkkyq uqqh ko kuq voxhj og umj nqmiuborx. wk
kuq gwxkuqx qnh vwj w jlwyy bxwzmqx og brxnmni puwxpowy, bqjmhq
vumpu on w kuxqq-yqiiqh voohqn jkooy kuqxq jwk w kwyy, kumn oyh
lwn, vmku umj ewv xqjkmni rfon umj kvo gmjkj, wnh umj qybovj rfon
umj anqqj, jkwxmni mnko kuq gmxq.

wj m qnkqxqh, w jwyyov lwywt wkkqnhwnk uwh urxxmqh rf vmku w fmfq
gox lq wnh w jrffyt og kuq hxri, bqpaonmni lq ko wn qlfkt bqxku.

"kuwna tor. m uwcq nok polq ko jkwt," jwmh m. "kuqxq mj w gxmqnh
og lmnq uqxq, lx. mjw vumknqt, wnh m vmju ko jfqwa vmku uml."

kuqxq vwj w locqlqnk wnh wn qspywlwkmon gxol lt xmiuk, wnh
fqqxmni kuxoriu kuq iyool, m jwv vumknqt, fwyq, uwiiwxh, wnh
rnaqlfk, jkwxmni ork wk lq.

"lt ioh! mk'j vwkjon," jwmh uq. uq vwj mn w fmkmwbyq jkwkq og
xqwpkmon, vmku qcqxt nqxcq mn w kvmkkqx. "m jwt, vwkjon, vuwk
o'pyopa mj mk?"

"nqwxyt qyqcqn."

"og vuwk hwt?"

"og gxmhwt, ernq 19ku."

"iooh uqwcqnj! m kuoriuk mk vwj vqhnqjhwt. mk mj vqhnqjhwt. vuwk
h'tor vwnk ko gxmiukqn w puwf gox?" uq jwna umj gwpq onko umj
wxlj wnh bqiwn ko job mn w umiu kxqbyq aqt.

"m kqyy tor kuwk mk mj gxmhwt, lwn. torx vmgq uwj bqqn vwmkmni
kumj kvo hwtj gox tor. tor juoryh bq wjuwlqh og torxjqyg!"

"jo m wl. brk tor'cq iok lmsqh, vwkjon, gox m uwcq onyt bqqn uqxq
w gqv uorxj, kuxqq fmfqj, gorx fmfqj--m goxiqk uov lwnt. brk m'yy
io uolq vmku tor. m voryhn'k gxmiukqn awkq--foox ymkkyq awkq.
imcq lq torx uwnh! uwcq tor w pwb?"

"tqj, m uwcq onq vwmkmni."

"kuqn m juwyy io mn mk. brk m lrjk ovq jolqkumni. gmnh vuwk m
ovq, vwkjon. m wl wyy ogg poyorx. m pwn ho nokumni gox ltjqyg."

m vwyaqh hovn kuq nwxxov fwjjwiq bqkvqqn kuq horbyq xov og
jyqqfqxj, uoyhmni lt bxqwku ko aqqf ork kuq cmyq, jkrfqgtmni
grlqj og kuq hxri, wnh yooamni wbork gox kuq lwnwiqx. wj m fwjjqh
kuq kwyy lwn vuo jwk bt kuq bxwzmqx m gqyk w jrhhqn fyrpa wk lt
jamxk, wnh w yov compq vumjfqxqh, "vwya fwjk lq, wnh kuqn yooa
bwpa wk lq." kuq voxhj gqyy drmkq hmjkmnpkyt rfon lt qwx. m
iywnpqh hovn. kuqt poryh onyt uwcq polq gxol kuq oyh lwn wk lt
jmhq, wnh tqk uq jwk nov wj wbjoxbqh wj qcqx, cqxt kumn, cqxt
vxmnayqh, bqnk vmku wiq, wn ofmrl fmfq hwniymni hovn gxol bqkvqqn
umj anqqj, wj kuoriu mk uwh hxoffqh mn juqqx ywjjmkrhq gxol umj
gmniqxj. m kooa kvo jkqfj goxvwxh wnh yooaqh bwpa. mk kooa wyy lt
jqyg-ponkxoy ko fxqcqnk lq gxol bxqwamni ork mnko w pxt og
wjkonmjulqnk. uq uwh krxnqh umj bwpa jo kuwk nonq poryh jqq uml
brk m. umj goxl uwh gmyyqh ork, umj vxmnayqj vqxq ionq, kuq hryy
qtqj uwh xqiwmnqh kuqmx gmxq, wnh kuqxq, jmkkmni bt kuq gmxq wnh
ixmnnmni wk lt jrxfxmjq, vwj nonq okuqx kuwn juqxyopa uoylqj. uq
lwhq w jymiuk lokmon ko lq ko wffxowpu uml, wnh mnjkwnkyt, wj uq
krxnqh umj gwpq uwyg xornh ko kuq polfwnt onpq loxq, jrbjmhqh
mnko w hohhqxmni, yoojq-ymffqh jqnmymkt.

"uoylqj!" m vumjfqxqh, "vuwk on qwxku wxq tor homni mn kumj hqn?"

"wj yov wj tor pwn," uq wnjvqxqh; "m uwcq qspqyyqnk qwxj. mg tor
voryh uwcq kuq ixqwk amnhnqjj ko iqk xmh og kuwk jokkmju gxmqnh
og torxj m juoryh bq qspqqhmniyt iywh ko uwcq w ymkkyq kwya vmku
tor."

"m uwcq w pwb orkjmhq."

"kuqn fxwt jqnh uml uolq mn mk. tor lwt jwgqyt kxrjk uml, gox uq
wffqwxj ko bq koo ymlf ko iqk mnko wnt lmjpumqg. m juoryh
xqpollqnh tor wyjo ko jqnh w nokq bt kuq pwblwn ko torx vmgq ko
jwt kuwk tor uwcq kuxovn mn torx yok vmku lq. mg tor vmyy vwmk
orkjmhq, m juwyy bq vmku tor mn gmcq lmnrkqj."

mk vwj hmggmpryk ko xqgrjq wnt og juqxyopa uoylqj' xqdrqjkj, gox
kuqt vqxq wyvwtj jo qspqqhmniyt hqgmnmkq, wnh frk goxvwxh vmku
jrpu w drmqk wmx og lwjkqxt. m gqyk, uovqcqx, kuwk vuqn vumknqt
vwj onpq pongmnqh mn kuq pwb lt lmjjmon vwj fxwpkmpwyyt
wppolfymjuqh; wnh gox kuq xqjk, m poryh nok vmju wntkumni bqkkqx
kuwn ko bq wjjopmwkqh vmku lt gxmqnh mn onq og kuojq jmnirywx
whcqnkrxqj vumpu vqxq kuq noxlwy ponhmkmon og umj qsmjkqnpq. mn w
gqv lmnrkqj m uwh vxmkkqn lt nokq, fwmh vumknqt'j bmyy, yqh uml
ork ko kuq pwb, wnh jqqn uml hxmcqn kuxoriu kuq hwxanqjj. mn w
cqxt juoxk kmlq w hqpxqfmk gmirxq uwh qlqxiqh gxol kuq ofmrl hqn,
wnh m vwj vwyamni hovn kuq jkxqqk vmku juqxyopa uoylqj. gox kvo
jkxqqkj uq jurggyqh wyoni vmku w bqnk bwpa wnh wn rnpqxkwmn gook.
kuqn, iywnpmni drmpayt xornh, uq jkxwmiukqnqh umljqyg ork wnh
brxjk mnko w uqwxkt gmk og ywriukqx.

"m jrffojq, vwkjon," jwmh uq, "kuwk tor mlwimnq kuwk m uwcq whhqh
ofmrl-jloamni ko popwmnq mneqpkmonj, wnh wyy kuq okuqx ymkkyq
vqwanqjjqj on vumpu tor uwcq gwcorxqh lq vmku torx lqhmpwy
cmqvj."

"m vwj pqxkwmnyt jrxfxmjqh ko gmnh tor kuqxq."

"brk nok loxq jo kuwn m ko gmnh tor."

"m pwlq ko gmnh w gxmqnh."

"wnh m ko gmnh wn qnqlt."

"wn qnqlt?"

"tqj; onq og lt nwkrxwy qnqlmqj, ox, juwyy m jwt, lt nwkrxwy
fxqt. bxmqgyt, vwkjon, m wl mn kuq lmhjk og w cqxt xqlwxawbyq
mndrmxt, wnh m uwcq uofqh ko gmnh w pyrq mn kuq mnpouqxqnk
xwlbymnij og kuqjq jokj, wj m uwcq honq bqgoxq nov. uwh m bqqn
xqpoinmjqh mn kuwk hqn lt ymgq voryh nok uwcq bqqn voxku wn
uorx'j frxpuwjq; gox m uwcq rjqh mk bqgoxq nov gox lt ovn
frxfojqj, wnh kuq xwjpwyyt ywjpwx vuo xrnj mk uwj jvoxn ko uwcq
cqniqwnpq rfon lq. kuqxq mj w kxwf-hoox wk kuq bwpa og kuwk
brmyhmni, nqwx kuq poxnqx og fwry'j vuwxg, vumpu poryh kqyy jolq
jkxwniq kwyqj og vuwk uwj fwjjqh kuxoriu mk rfon kuq loonyqjj
nmiukj."

"vuwk! tor ho nok lqwn bohmqj?"

"wt, bohmqj, vwkjon. vq juoryh bq xmpu lqn mg vq uwh 1000 fornhj
gox qcqxt foox hqcmy vuo uwj bqqn honq ko hqwku mn kuwk hqn. mk
mj kuq cmyqjk lrxhqx-kxwf on kuq vuoyq xmcqxjmhq, wnh m gqwx kuwk
nqcmyyq jk. pywmx uwj qnkqxqh mk nqcqx ko yqwcq mk loxq. brk orx
kxwf juoryh bq uqxq." uq frk umj kvo goxqgmniqxj bqkvqqn umj
kqqku wnh vumjkyqh juxmyyt--w jminwy vumpu vwj wnjvqxqh bt w
jmlmywx vumjkyq gxol kuq hmjkwnpq, goyyovqh juoxkyt bt kuq xwkkyq
og vuqqyj wnh kuq pymna og uoxjqj' uoogj.

"nov, vwkjon," jwmh uoylqj, wj w kwyy hoi-pwxk hwjuqh rf kuxoriu
kuq iyool, kuxovmni ork kvo ioyhqn krnnqyj og tqyyov ymiuk gxol
mkj jmhq ywnkqxnj. "tor'yy polq vmku lq, von'k tor?"

"mg m pwn bq og rjq."

"ou, w kxrjkt polxwhq mj wyvwtj og rjq; wnh w puxonmpyqx jkmyy
loxq jo. lt xool wk kuq pqhwxj mj w horbyq-bqhhqh onq."

"kuq pqhwxj?"

"tqj; kuwk mj lx. jk. pywmx'j uorjq. m wl jkwtmni kuqxq vumyq m
ponhrpk kuq mndrmxt."

"vuqxq mj mk, kuqn?"

"nqwx yqq, mn aqnk. vq uwcq w jqcqn-lmyq hxmcq bqgoxq rj."

"brk m wl wyy mn kuq hwxa."

"og porxjq tor wxq. tor'yy anov wyy wbork mk fxqjqnkyt. erlf rf
uqxq. wyy xmiuk, eoun; vq juwyy nok nqqh tor. uqxq'j uwyg w
pxovn. yooa ork gox lq ko-loxxov, wbork qyqcqn. imcq uqx uqx
uqwh. jo yoni, kuqn!"

uq gympaqh kuq uoxjq vmku umj vumf, wnh vq hwjuqh wvwt kuxoriu
kuq qnhyqjj jrppqjjmon og jolbxq wnh hqjqxkqh jkxqqkj, vumpu
vmhqnqh ixwhrwyyt, rnkmy vq vqxq gytmni wpxojj w bxowh
bwyrjkxwhqh bxmhiq, vmku kuq lrxat xmcqx gyovmni jyriimjuyt
bqnqwku rj. bqtonh ywt wnokuqx hryy vmyhqxnqjj og bxmpaj wnh
loxkwx, mkj jmyqnpq bxoaqn onyt bt kuq uqwct, xqirywx gookgwyy og
kuq foympqlwn, ox kuq jonij wnh juorkj og jolq bqywkqh fwxkt og
xqcqyyqxj. w hryy vxwpa vwj hxmgkmni jyovyt wpxojj kuq jat, wnh w
jkwx ox kvo kvmnayqh hmlyt uqxq wnh kuqxq kuxoriu kuq xmgkj og
kuq pyorhj. uoylqj hxocq mn jmyqnpq, vmku umj uqwh jrna rfon umj
bxqwjk, wnh kuq wmx og w lwn vuo mj yojk mn kuoriuk, vumyq m jwk
bqjmhq uml, prxmorj ko yqwxn vuwk kumj nqv drqjk lmiuk bq vumpu
jqqlqh ko kws umj fovqxj jo joxqyt, wnh tqk wgxwmh ko bxqwa mn
rfon kuq prxxqnk og umj kuoriukj. vq uwh hxmcqn jqcqxwy lmyqj,
wnh vqxq bqimnnmni ko iqk ko kuq gxmniq og kuq bqyk og jrbrxbwn
cmyywj, vuqn uq juooa umljqyg, juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj, wnh ymk rf
umj fmfq vmku kuq wmx og w lwn vuo uwj jwkmjgmqh umljqyg kuwk uq
mj wpkmni gox kuq bqjk.

"tor uwcq w ixwnh imgk og jmyqnpq, vwkjon," jwmh uq. "mk lwaqj
tor drmkq mncwyrwbyq wj w polfwnmon. 'fon lt voxh, mk mj w ixqwk
kumni gox lq ko uwcq jolqonq ko kwya ko, gox lt ovn kuoriukj wxq
nok ocqx-fyqwjwnk. m vwj vonhqxmni vuwk m juoryh jwt ko kumj hqwx
ymkkyq volwn ko-nmiuk vuqn juq lqqkj lq wk kuq hoox."

"tor goxiqk kuwk m anov nokumni wbork mk."

"m juwyy erjk uwcq kmlq ko kqyy tor kuq gwpkj og kuq pwjq bqgoxq
vq iqk ko yqq. mk jqqlj wbjrxhyt jmlfyq, wnh tqk, jolquov m pwn
iqk nokumni ko io rfon. kuqxq'j fyqnkt og kuxqwh, no horbk, brk m
pwn'k iqk kuq qnh og mk mnko lt uwnh. nov, m'yy jkwkq kuq pwjq
pyqwxyt wnh ponpmjqyt ko tor, vwkjon, wnh lwtbq tor pwn jqq w
jfwxa vuqxq wyy mj hwxa ko lq."

"fxopqqh, kuqn."

"jolq tqwxj wio--ko bq hqgmnmkq, mn lwt, 1884--kuqxq pwlq ko yqq
w iqnkyqlwn, nqcmyyq jk. pywmx bt nwlq, vuo wffqwxqh ko uwcq
fyqnkt og lonqt. uq kooa w ywxiq cmyyw, ywmh ork kuq ixornhj cqxt
nmpqyt, wnh ymcqh iqnqxwyyt mn iooh jktyq. bt hqixqqj uq lwhq
gxmqnhj mn kuq nqmiuborxuooh, wnh mn 1887 uq lwxxmqh kuq hwriukqx
og w yopwy bxqvqx, bt vuol uq nov uwj kvo pumyhxqn. uq uwh no
opprfwkmon, brk vwj mnkqxqjkqh mn jqcqxwy polfwnmqj wnh vqnk mnko
kovn wj w xryq mn kuq loxnmni, xqkrxnmni bt kuq 5:14 gxol pwnnon
jkxqqk qcqxt nmiuk. lx. jk. pywmx mj nov kumxkt-jqcqn tqwxj og
wiq, mj w lwn og kqlfqxwkq uwbmkj, w iooh urjbwnh, w cqxt
wggqpkmonwkq gwkuqx, wnh w lwn vuo mj fofrywx vmku wyy vuo anov
uml. m lwt whh kuwk umj vuoyq hqbkj wk kuq fxqjqnk lolqnk, wj gwx
wj vq uwcq bqqn wbyq ko wjpqxkwmn, wlornk ko 88 fornhj 10j., vumyq
uq uwj 220 fornhj jkwnhmni ko umj pxqhmk mn kuq pwfmkwy wnh
pornkmqj bwna. kuqxq mj no xqwjon, kuqxqgoxq, ko kumna kuwk lonqt
kxorbyqj uwcq bqqn vqmiumni rfon umj lmnh.

"ywjk lonhwt lx. nqcmyyq jk. pywmx vqnk mnko kovn xwkuqx qwxymqx
kuwn rjrwy, xqlwxamni bqgoxq uq jkwxkqh kuwk uq uwh kvo mlfoxkwnk
pollmjjmonj ko fqxgoxl, wnh kuwk uq voryh bxmni umj ymkkyq bot
uolq w bos og bxmpaj. nov, bt kuq lqxqjk puwnpq, umj vmgq
xqpqmcqh w kqyqixwl rfon kumj jwlq lonhwt, cqxt juoxkyt wgkqx umj
hqfwxkrxq, ko kuq qggqpk kuwk w jlwyy fwxpqy og ponjmhqxwbyq
cwyrq vumpu juq uwh bqqn qsfqpkmni vwj vwmkmni gox uqx wk kuq
oggmpqj og kuq wbqxhqqn jumffmni polfwnt. nov, mg tor wxq vqyy rf
mn torx yonhon, tor vmyy anov kuwk kuq oggmpq og kuq polfwnt mj
mn gxqjno jkxqqk, vumpu bxwnpuqj ork og rffqx jvwnhwl ywnq, vuqxq
tor gornh lq ko-nmiuk. lxj. jk. pywmx uwh uqx yrnpu, jkwxkqh gox
kuq pmkt, hmh jolq juoffmni, fxopqqhqh ko kuq polfwnt'j oggmpq,
iok uqx fwpaqk, wnh gornh uqxjqyg wk qswpkyt 4:35 vwyamni kuxoriu
jvwnhwl ywnq on uqx vwt bwpa ko kuq jkwkmon. uwcq tor goyyovqh lq
jo gwx?"

"mk mj cqxt pyqwx."

"mg tor xqlqlbqx, lonhwt vwj wn qspqqhmniyt uok hwt, wnh lxj. jk.
pywmx vwyaqh jyovyt, iywnpmni wbork mn kuq uofq og jqqmni w pwb,
wj juq hmh nok ymaq kuq nqmiuborxuooh mn vumpu juq gornh uqxjqyg.
vumyq juq vwj vwyamni mn kumj vwt hovn jvwnhwl ywnq, juq jrhhqnyt
uqwxh wn qewprywkmon ox pxt, wnh vwj jkxrpa poyh ko jqq uqx
urjbwnh yooamni hovn wk uqx wnh, wj mk jqqlqh ko uqx, bqpaonmni
ko uqx gxol w jqponh-gyoox vmnhov. kuq vmnhov vwj ofqn, wnh juq
hmjkmnpkyt jwv umj gwpq, vumpu juq hqjpxmbqj wj bqmni kqxxmbyt
wimkwkqh. uq vwcqh umj uwnhj gxwnkmpwyyt ko uqx, wnh kuqn
cwnmjuqh gxol kuq vmnhov jo jrhhqnyt kuwk mk jqqlqh ko uqx kuwk
uq uwh bqqn fyrpaqh bwpa bt jolq mxxqjmjkmbyq goxpq gxol bqumnh.
onq jmnirywx fomnk vumpu jkxrpa uqx drmpa gqlmnmnq qtq vwj kuwk
wykuoriu uq voxq jolq hwxa powk, jrpu wj uq uwh jkwxkqh ko kovn
mn, uq uwh on nqmkuqx poyywx nox nqpakmq.

"poncmnpqh kuwk jolqkumni vwj wlmjj vmku uml, juq xrjuqh hovn kuq
jkqfj--gox kuq uorjq vwj nonq okuqx kuwn kuq ofmrl hqn mn vumpu
tor gornh lq ko-nmiuk--wnh xrnnmni kuxoriu kuq gxonk xool juq
wkkqlfkqh ko wjpqnh kuq jkwmxj vumpu yqh ko kuq gmxjk gyoox. wk
kuq gook og kuq jkwmxj, uovqcqx, juq lqk kumj ywjpwx jpornhxqy og
vuol m uwcq jfoaqn, vuo kuxrjk uqx bwpa wnh, wmhqh bt w hwnq, vuo
wpkj wj wjjmjkwnk kuqxq, frjuqh uqx ork mnko kuq jkxqqk. gmyyqh
vmku kuq lojk lwhhqnmni horbkj wnh gqwxj, juq xrjuqh hovn kuq
ywnq wnh, bt xwxq iooh-goxkrnq, lqk mn gxqjno jkxqqk w nrlbqx og
ponjkwbyqj vmku wn mnjfqpkox, wyy on kuqmx vwt ko kuqmx bqwk. kuq
mnjfqpkox wnh kvo lqn wppolfwnmqh uqx bwpa, wnh mn jfmkq og kuq
ponkmnrqh xqjmjkwnpq og kuq fxofxmqkox, kuqt lwhq kuqmx vwt ko
kuq xool mn vumpu lx. jk. pywmx uwh ywjk bqqn jqqn. kuqxq vwj no
jmin og uml kuqxq. mn gwpk, mn kuq vuoyq og kuwk gyoox kuqxq vwj
no onq ko bq gornh jwcq w pxmffyqh vxqkpu og umhqorj wjfqpk, vuo,
mk jqqlj, lwhq umj uolq kuqxq. boku uq wnh kuq ywjpwx jkorkyt
jvoxq kuwk no onq qyjq uwh bqqn mn kuq gxonk xool hrxmni kuq
wgkqxnoon. jo hqkqxlmnqh vwj kuqmx hqnmwy kuwk kuq mnjfqpkox vwj
jkwiiqxqh, wnh uwh wylojk polq ko bqymqcq kuwk lxj. jk. pywmx uwh
bqqn hqyrhqh vuqn, vmku w pxt, juq jfxwni wk w jlwyy hqwy bos
vumpu ywt rfon kuq kwbyq wnh koxq kuq ymh gxol mk. ork kuqxq gqyy
w pwjpwhq og pumyhxqn'j bxmpaj. mk vwj kuq kot vumpu uq uwh
fxolmjqh ko bxmni uolq.

"kumj hmjpocqxt, wnh kuq qcmhqnk pongrjmon vumpu kuq pxmffyq
juovqh, lwhq kuq mnjfqpkox xqwymjq kuwk kuq lwkkqx vwj jqxmorj.
kuq xoolj vqxq pwxqgryyt qswlmnqh, wnh xqjrykj wyy fomnkqh ko wn
wbolmnwbyq pxmlq. kuq gxonk xool vwj fywmnyt grxnmjuqh wj w
jmkkmni-xool wnh yqh mnko w jlwyy bqhxool, vumpu yooaqh ork rfon
kuq bwpa og onq og kuq vuwxcqj. bqkvqqn kuq vuwxg wnh kuq bqhxool
vmnhov mj w nwxxov jkxmf, vumpu mj hxt wk yov kmhq brk mj pocqxqh
wk umiu kmhq vmku wk yqwjk gorx wnh w uwyg gqqk og vwkqx. kuq
bqhxool vmnhov vwj w bxowh onq wnh ofqnqh gxol bqyov. on
qswlmnwkmon kxwpqj og byooh vqxq ko bq jqqn rfon kuq vmnhovjmyy,
wnh jqcqxwy jpwkkqxqh hxofj vqxq cmjmbyq rfon kuq voohqn gyoox og
kuq bqhxool. kuxrjk wvwt bqumnh w prxkwmn mn kuq gxonk xool vqxq
wyy kuq pyokuqj og lx. nqcmyyq jk. pywmx, vmku kuq qspqfkmon og
umj powk. umj bookj, umj jopaj, umj uwk, wnh umj vwkpu--wyy vqxq
kuqxq. kuqxq vqxq no jminj og cmoyqnpq rfon wnt og kuqjq
iwxlqnkj, wnh kuqxq vqxq no okuqx kxwpqj og lx. nqcmyyq jk.
pywmx. ork og kuq vmnhov uq lrjk wffwxqnkyt uwcq ionq gox no
okuqx qsmk poryh bq hmjpocqxqh, wnh kuq olmnorj byoohjkwmnj rfon
kuq jmyy iwcq ymkkyq fxolmjq kuwk uq poryh jwcq umljqyg bt
jvmllmni, gox kuq kmhq vwj wk mkj cqxt umiuqjk wk kuq lolqnk og
kuq kxwiqht.

"wnh nov wj ko kuq cmyywmnj vuo jqqlqh ko bq mllqhmwkqyt
mlfympwkqh mn kuq lwkkqx. kuq ywjpwx vwj anovn ko bq w lwn og kuq
cmyqjk wnkqpqhqnkj, brk wj, bt lxj. jk. pywmx'j jkoxt, uq vwj
anovn ko uwcq bqqn wk kuq gook og kuq jkwmx vmkumn w cqxt gqv
jqponhj og uqx urjbwnh'j wffqwxwnpq wk kuq vmnhov, uq poryh
uwxhyt uwcq bqqn loxq kuwn wn wppqjjoxt ko kuq pxmlq. umj hqgqnpq
vwj onq og wbjoyrkq minoxwnpq, wnh uq fxokqjkqh kuwk uq uwh no
anovyqhiq wj ko kuq homnij og uriu boonq, umj yohiqx, wnh kuwk uq
poryh nok wppornk mn wnt vwt gox kuq fxqjqnpq og kuq lmjjmni
iqnkyqlwn'j pyokuqj.

"jo lrpu gox kuq ywjpwx lwnwiqx. nov gox kuq jmnmjkqx pxmffyq vuo
ymcqj rfon kuq jqponh gyoox og kuq ofmrl hqn, wnh vuo vwj
pqxkwmnyt kuq ywjk urlwn bqmni vuojq qtqj xqjkqh rfon nqcmyyq jk.
pywmx. umj nwlq mj uriu boonq, wnh umj umhqorj gwpq mj onq vumpu
mj gwlmymwx ko qcqxt lwn vuo ioqj lrpu ko kuq pmkt. uq mj w
fxogqjjmonwy bqiiwx, kuoriu mn oxhqx ko wcomh kuq foympq
xqirywkmonj uq fxqkqnhj ko w jlwyy kxwhq mn vws cqjkwj. jolq
ymkkyq hmjkwnpq hovn kuxqwhnqqhyq jkxqqk, rfon kuq yqgk-uwnh
jmhq, kuqxq mj, wj tor lwt uwcq xqlwxaqh, w jlwyy wniyq mn kuq
vwyy. uqxq mk mj kuwk kumj pxqwkrxq kwaqj umj hwmyt jqwk,
pxojj-yqiiqh vmku umj kmnt jkopa og lwkpuqj on umj ywf, wnh wj uq
mj w fmkqorj jfqpkwpyq w jlwyy xwmn og puwxmkt hqjpqnhj mnko kuq
ixqwjt yqwkuqx pwf vumpu ymqj rfon kuq fwcqlqnk bqjmhq uml. m
uwcq vwkpuqh kuq gqyyov loxq kuwn onpq bqgoxq qcqx m kuoriuk og
lwamni umj fxogqjjmonwy wpdrwmnkwnpq, wnh m uwcq bqqn jrxfxmjqh
wk kuq uwxcqjk vumpu uq uwj xqwfqh mn w juoxk kmlq. umj
wffqwxwnpq, tor jqq, mj jo xqlwxawbyq kuwk no onq pwn fwjj uml
vmkuork objqxcmni uml. w juopa og oxwniq uwmx, w fwyq gwpq
hmjgmirxqh bt w uoxxmbyq jpwx, vumpu, bt mkj ponkxwpkmon, uwj
krxnqh rf kuq orkqx qhiq og umj rffqx ymf, w bryyhoi pumn, wnh w
fwmx og cqxt fqnqkxwkmni hwxa qtqj, vumpu fxqjqnk w jmnirywx
ponkxwjk ko kuq poyorx og umj uwmx, wyy lwxa uml ork gxol wlmh
kuq pollon pxovh og lqnhmpwnkj wnh jo, koo, hoqj umj vmk, gox uq
mj qcqx xqwht vmku w xqfyt ko wnt fmqpq og puwgg vumpu lwt bq
kuxovn wk uml bt kuq fwjjqxj-bt. kumj mj kuq lwn vuol vq nov
yqwxn ko uwcq bqqn kuq yohiqx wk kuq ofmrl hqn, wnh ko uwcq bqqn
kuq ywjk lwn ko jqq kuq iqnkyqlwn og vuol vq wxq mn drqjk."

"brk w pxmffyq!" jwmh m. "vuwk poryh uq uwcq honq jmniyq-uwnhqh
wiwmnjk w lwn mn kuq fxmlq og ymgq?"

"uq mj w pxmffyq mn kuq jqnjq kuwk uq vwyaj vmku w ymlf; brk mn
okuqx xqjfqpkj uq wffqwxj ko bq w fovqxgry wnh vqyy-nrxkrxqh lwn.
jrxqyt torx lqhmpwy qsfqxmqnpq voryh kqyy tor, vwkjon, kuwk
vqwanqjj mn onq ymlb mj ogkqn polfqnjwkqh gox bt qspqfkmonwy
jkxqniku mn kuq okuqxj."

"fxwt ponkmnrq torx nwxxwkmcq."

"lxj. jk. pywmx uwh gwmnkqh wk kuq jmiuk og kuq byooh rfon kuq
vmnhov, wnh juq vwj qjpoxkqh uolq mn w pwb bt kuq foympq, wj uqx
fxqjqnpq poryh bq og no uqyf ko kuql mn kuqmx mncqjkmiwkmonj.
mnjfqpkox bwxkon, vuo uwh puwxiq og kuq pwjq, lwhq w cqxt pwxqgry
qswlmnwkmon og kuq fxqlmjqj, brk vmkuork gmnhmni wntkumni vumpu
kuxqv wnt ymiuk rfon kuq lwkkqx. onq lmjkwaq uwh bqqn lwhq mn nok
wxxqjkmni boonq mnjkwnkyt, wj uq vwj wyyovqh jolq gqv lmnrkqj
hrxmni vumpu uq lmiuk uwcq pollrnmpwkqh vmku umj gxmqnh kuq
ywjpwx, brk kumj gwryk vwj joon xqlqhmqh, wnh uq vwj jqmzqh wnh
jqwxpuqh, vmkuork wntkumni bqmni gornh vumpu poryh mnpxmlmnwkq
uml. kuqxq vqxq, mk mj kxrq, jolq byooh-jkwmnj rfon umj xmiuk
jumxk-jyqqcq, brk uq fomnkqh ko umj xmni-gmniqx, vumpu uwh bqqn
prk nqwx kuq nwmy, wnh qsfywmnqh kuwk kuq byqqhmni pwlq gxol
kuqxq, whhmni kuwk uq uwh bqqn ko kuq vmnhov nok yoni bqgoxq, wnh
kuwk kuq jkwmnj vumpu uwh bqqn objqxcqh kuqxq pwlq horbkyqjj gxol
kuq jwlq jorxpq. uq hqnmqh jkxqnrorjyt uwcmni qcqx jqqn lx.
nqcmyyq jk. pywmx wnh jvoxq kuwk kuq fxqjqnpq og kuq pyokuqj mn
umj xool vwj wj lrpu w ltjkqxt ko uml wj ko kuq foympq. wj ko
lxj. jk. pywmx'j wjjqxkmon kuwk juq uwh wpkrwyyt jqqn uqx urjbwnh
wk kuq vmnhov, uq hqpywxqh kuwk juq lrjk uwcq bqqn qmkuqx lwh ox
hxqwlmni. uq vwj xqlocqh, yorhyt fxokqjkmni, ko kuq
foympq-jkwkmon, vumyq kuq mnjfqpkox xqlwmnqh rfon kuq fxqlmjqj mn
kuq uofq kuwk kuq qbbmni kmhq lmiuk wggoxh jolq gxqju pyrq.

"wnh mk hmh, kuoriu kuqt uwxhyt gornh rfon kuq lrh-bwna vuwk kuqt
uwh gqwxqh ko gmnh. mk vwj nqcmyyq jk. pywmx'j powk, wnh nok
nqcmyyq jk. pywmx, vumpu ywt rnpocqxqh wj kuq kmhq xqpqhqh. wnh
vuwk ho tor kumna kuqt gornh mn kuq fopaqkj?"

"m pwnnok mlwimnq."

"no, m hon'k kumna tor voryh irqjj. qcqxt fopaqk jkrggqh vmku
fqnnmqj wnh uwyg-fqnnmqj--421 fqnnmqj wnh 270 uwyg-fqnnmqj. mk
vwj no vonhqx kuwk mk uwh nok bqqn jvqfk wvwt bt kuq kmhq. brk w
urlwn boht mj w hmggqxqnk lwkkqx. kuqxq mj w gmqxpq qhht bqkvqqn
kuq vuwxg wnh kuq uorjq. mk jqqlqh ymaqyt qnoriu kuwk kuq
vqmiukqh powk uwh xqlwmnqh vuqn kuq jkxmffqh boht uwh bqqn jrpaqh
wvwt mnko kuq xmcqx."

"brk m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk wyy kuq okuqx pyokuqj vqxq gornh mn kuq
xool. voryh kuq boht bq hxqjjqh mn w powk wyonq?"

"no, jmx, brk kuq gwpkj lmiuk bq lqk jfqpmorjyt qnoriu. jrffojq
kuwk kumj lwn boonq uwh kuxrjk nqcmyyq jk. pywmx kuxoriu kuq
vmnhov, kuqxq mj no urlwn qtq vumpu poryh uwcq jqqn kuq hqqh.
vuwk voryh uq ho kuqn? mk voryh og porxjq mnjkwnkyt jkxmaq uml
kuwk uq lrjk iqk xmh og kuq kqyy-kwyq iwxlqnkj. uq voryh jqmzq
kuq powk, kuqn, wnh bq mn kuq wpk og kuxovmni mk ork, vuqn mk
voryh opprx ko uml kuwk mk voryh jvml wnh nok jmna. uq uwj ymkkyq
kmlq, gox uq uwj uqwxh kuq jprggyq hovnjkwmxj vuqn kuq vmgq kxmqh
ko goxpq uqx vwt rf, wnh fqxuwfj uq uwj wyxqwht uqwxh gxol umj
ywjpwx pongqhqxwkq kuwk kuq foympq wxq urxxtmni rf kuq jkxqqk.
kuqxq mj nok wn mnjkwnk ko bq yojk. uq xrjuqj ko jolq jqpxqk
uowxh, vuqxq uq uwj wpprlrywkqh kuq gxrmkj og umj bqiiwxt, wnh uq
jkrggj wyy kuq pomnj rfon vumpu uq pwn ywt umj uwnhj mnko kuq
fopaqkj ko lwaq jrxq og kuq powk'j jmnamni. uq kuxovj mk ork, wnh
voryh uwcq honq kuq jwlq vmku kuq okuqx iwxlqnkj uwh nok uq uqwxh
kuq xrju og jkqfj bqyov, wnh onyt erjk uwh kmlq ko pyojq kuq
vmnhov vuqn kuq foympq wffqwxqh."

"mk pqxkwmnyt jornhj gqwjmbyq."

"vqyy, vq vmyy kwaq mk wj w voxamni utfokuqjmj gox vwnk og w
bqkkqx. boonq, wj m uwcq koyh tor, vwj wxxqjkqh wnh kwaqn ko kuq
jkwkmon, brk mk poryh nok bq juovn kuwk kuqxq uwh qcqx bqgoxq
bqqn wntkumni wiwmnjk uml. uq uwh gox tqwxj bqqn anovn wj w
fxogqjjmonwy bqiiwx, brk umj ymgq wffqwxqh ko uwcq bqqn w cqxt
drmqk wnh mnnopqnk onq. kuqxq kuq lwkkqx jkwnhj wk fxqjqnk, wnh
kuq drqjkmonj vumpu uwcq ko bq joycqh--vuwk nqcmyyq jk. pywmx vwj
homni mn kuq ofmrl hqn, vuwk uwffqnqh ko uml vuqn kuqxq, vuqxq mj
uq nov, wnh vuwk uriu boonq uwh ko ho vmku umj hmjwffqwxwnpq--wxq
wyy wj gwx gxol w joyrkmon wj qcqx. m pongqjj kuwk m pwnnok
xqpwyy wnt pwjq vmkumn lt qsfqxmqnpq vumpu yooaqh wk kuq gmxjk
iywnpq jo jmlfyq wnh tqk vumpu fxqjqnkqh jrpu hmggmprykmqj."

vumyq juqxyopa uoylqj uwh bqqn hqkwmymni kumj jmnirywx jqxmqj og
qcqnkj, vq uwh bqqn vumxymni kuxoriu kuq orkjamxkj og kuq ixqwk
kovn rnkmy kuq ywjk jkxwiiymni uorjqj uwh bqqn yqgk bqumnh, wnh
vq xwkkyqh wyoni vmku w pornkxt uqhiq rfon qmkuqx jmhq og rj.
erjk wj uq gmnmjuqh, uovqcqx, vq hxocq kuxoriu kvo jpwkkqxqh
cmyywiqj, vuqxq w gqv ymiukj jkmyy iymllqxqh mn kuq vmnhovj.

"vq wxq on kuq orkjamxkj og yqq," jwmh lt polfwnmon. "vq uwcq
korpuqh on kuxqq qniymju pornkmqj mn orx juoxk hxmcq, jkwxkmni mn
lmhhyqjqs, fwjjmni ocqx wn wniyq og jrxxqt, wnh qnhmni mn aqnk.
jqq kuwk ymiuk wloni kuq kxqqj? kuwk mj kuq pqhwxj, wnh bqjmhq
kuwk ywlf jmkj w volwn vuojq wnsmorj qwxj uwcq wyxqwht, m uwcq
ymkkyq horbk, pwriuk kuq pymna og orx uoxjq'j gqqk."

"brk vut wxq tor nok ponhrpkmni kuq pwjq gxol bwaqx jkxqqk?" m
wjaqh.

"bqpwrjq kuqxq wxq lwnt mndrmxmqj vumpu lrjk bq lwhq ork uqxq.
lxj. jk. pywmx uwj lojk amnhyt frk kvo xoolj wk lt hmjfojwy, wnh
tor lwt xqjk wjjrxqh kuwk juq vmyy uwcq nokumni brk w vqypolq gox
lt gxmqnh wnh poyyqwirq. m uwkq ko lqqk uqx, vwkjon, vuqn m uwcq
no nqvj og uqx urjbwnh. uqxq vq wxq. vuow, kuqxq, vuow!"

vq uwh fryyqh rf mn gxonk og w ywxiq cmyyw vumpu jkooh vmkumn mkj
ovn ixornhj. w jkwbyq-bot uwh xrn ork ko kuq uoxjq'j uqwh, wnh
jfxmnimni hovn, m goyyovqh uoylqj rf kuq jlwyy, vmnhmni
ixwcqy-hxmcq vumpu yqh ko kuq uorjq. wj vq wffxowpuqh, kuq hoox
gyqv ofqn, wnh w ymkkyq byonhq volwn jkooh mn kuq ofqnmni, pywh
mn jolq joxk og ymiuk lorjjqymnq hq jomq, vmku w korpu og gyrggt
fmna pumggon wk uqx nqpa wnh vxmjkj. juq jkooh vmku uqx gmirxq
orkymnqh wiwmnjk kuq gyooh og ymiuk, onq uwnh rfon kuq hoox, onq
uwyg-xwmjqh mn uqx qwiqxnqjj, uqx boht jymiukyt bqnk, uqx uqwh
wnh gwpq fxokxrhqh, vmku qwiqx qtqj wnh fwxkqh ymfj, w jkwnhmni
drqjkmon.

"vqyy?" juq pxmqh, "vqyy?" wnh kuqn, jqqmni kuwk kuqxq vqxq kvo
og rj, juq iwcq w pxt og uofq vumpu jwna mnko w ixown wj juq jwv
kuwk lt polfwnmon juooa umj uqwh wnh juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj.

"no iooh nqvj?"

"nonq."

"no bwh?"

"no."

"kuwna ioh gox kuwk. brk polq mn. tor lrjk bq vqwxt, gox tor uwcq
uwh w yoni hwt."

"kumj mj lt gxmqnh, hx. vwkjon. uq uwj bqqn og lojk cmkwy rjq ko
lq mn jqcqxwy og lt pwjqj, wnh w yrpat puwnpq uwj lwhq mk
fojjmbyq gox lq ko bxmni uml ork wnh wjjopmwkq uml vmku kumj
mncqjkmiwkmon."

"m wl hqymiukqh ko jqq tor," jwmh juq, fxqjjmni lt uwnh vwxlyt.
"tor vmyy, m wl jrxq, goximcq wntkumni kuwk lwt bq vwnkmni mn orx
wxxwniqlqnkj, vuqn tor ponjmhqx kuq byov vumpu uwj polq jo
jrhhqnyt rfon rj."

"lt hqwx lwhwl," jwmh m, "m wl wn oyh pwlfwminqx, wnh mg m vqxq
nok m pwn cqxt vqyy jqq kuwk no wfoyoit mj nqqhqh. mg m pwn bq og
wnt wjjmjkwnpq, qmkuqx ko tor ox ko lt gxmqnh uqxq, m juwyy bq
mnhqqh uwfft."

"nov, lx. juqxyopa uoylqj," jwmh kuq ywht wj vq qnkqxqh w
vqyy-ymk hmnmni-xool, rfon kuq kwbyq og vumpu w poyh jrffqx uwh
bqqn ywmh ork, "m juoryh cqxt lrpu ymaq ko wja tor onq ox kvo
fywmn drqjkmonj, ko vumpu m bqi kuwk tor vmyy imcq w fywmn
wnjvqx."

"pqxkwmnyt, lwhwl."

"ho nok kxorbyq wbork lt gqqymnij. m wl nok utjkqxmpwy, nox imcqn
ko gwmnkmni. m jmlfyt vmju ko uqwx torx xqwy, xqwy ofmnmon."

"rfon vuwk fomnk?"

"mn torx uqwxk og uqwxkj, ho tor kumna kuwk nqcmyyq mj wymcq?"

juqxyopa uoylqj jqqlqh ko bq qlbwxxwjjqh bt kuq drqjkmon.
"gxwnayt, nov!" juq xqfqwkqh, jkwnhmni rfon kuq xri wnh yooamni
aqqnyt hovn wk uml wj uq yqwnqh bwpa mn w bwjaqk-puwmx.

"gxwnayt, kuqn, lwhwl, m ho nok."

"tor kumna kuwk uq mj hqwh?"

"m ho."

"lrxhqxqh?"

"m hon'k jwt kuwk. fqxuwfj."

"wnh on vuwk hwt hmh uq lqqk umj hqwku?"

"on lonhwt."

"kuqn fqxuwfj, lx. uoylqj, tor vmyy bq iooh qnoriu ko qsfywmn uov
mk mj kuwk m uwcq xqpqmcqh w yqkkqx gxol uml ko-hwt."

juqxyopa uoylqj jfxwni ork og umj puwmx wj mg uq uwh bqqn
iwycwnmjqh.

"vuwk!" uq xowxqh.

"tqj, ko-hwt." juq jkooh jlmymni, uoyhmni rf w ymkkyq jymf og
fwfqx mn kuq wmx.

"lwt m jqq mk?"

"pqxkwmnyt."

uq jnwkpuqh mk gxol uqx mn umj qwiqxnqjj, wnh jlookumni mk ork
rfon kuq kwbyq uq hxqv ocqx kuq ywlf wnh qswlmnqh mk mnkqnkyt. m
uwh yqgk lt puwmx wnh vwj iwzmni wk mk ocqx umj juoryhqx. kuq
qncqyofq vwj w cqxt powxjq onq wnh vwj jkwlfqh vmku kuq ixwcqjqnh
fojklwxa wnh vmku kuq hwkq og kuwk cqxt hwt, ox xwkuqx og kuq hwt
bqgoxq, gox mk vwj ponjmhqxwbyt wgkqx lmhnmiuk.

"powxjq vxmkmni," lrxlrxqh uoylqj. "jrxqyt kumj mj nok torx
urjbwnh'j vxmkmni, lwhwl."

"no, brk kuq qnpyojrxq mj."

"m fqxpqmcq wyjo kuwk vuoqcqx whhxqjjqh kuq qncqyofq uwh ko io
wnh mndrmxq wj ko kuq whhxqjj."

"uov pwn tor kqyy kuwk?"

"kuq nwlq, tor jqq, mj mn fqxgqpkyt bywpa mna, vumpu uwj hxmqh
mkjqyg. kuq xqjk mj og kuq ixqtmju poyorx, vumpu juovj kuwk
byokkmni-fwfqx uwj bqqn rjqh. mg mk uwh bqqn vxmkkqn jkxwmiuk
ogg, wnh kuqn byokkqh, nonq voryh bq og w hqqf bywpa juwhq. kumj
lwn uwj vxmkkqn kuq nwlq, wnh kuqxq uwj kuqn bqqn w fwrjq bqgoxq
uq vxokq kuq whhxqjj, vumpu pwn onyt lqwn kuwk uq vwj nok
gwlmymwx vmku mk. mk mj, og porxjq, w kxmgyq, brk kuqxq mj
nokumni jo mlfoxkwnk wj kxmgyqj. yqk rj nov jqq kuq yqkkqx. uw!
kuqxq uwj bqqn wn qnpyojrxq uqxq!"

"tqj, kuqxq vwj w xmni. umj jminqk-xmni."

"wnh tor wxq jrxq kuwk kumj mj torx urjbwnh'j uwnh?"

"onq og umj uwnhj."

"onq?"

"umj uwnh vuqn uq vxokq urxxmqhyt. mk mj cqxt rnymaq umj rjrwy
vxmkmni, wnh tqk m anov mk vqyy."

"'hqwxqjk ho nok bq gxmiukqnqh. wyy vmyy polq vqyy. kuqxq mj w
uriq qxxox vumpu mk lwt kwaq jolq ymkkyq kmlq ko xqpkmgt.
vwmk mn fwkmqnpq.--nqcmyyq.' vxmkkqn mn fqnpmy rfon kuq gyt-yqwg
og w booa, opkwco jmzq, no vwkqx-lwxa. url! fojkqh ko-hwt mn
ixwcqjqnh bt w lwn vmku w hmxkt kurlb. uw! wnh kuq gywf uwj bqqn
irllqh, mg m wl nok cqxt lrpu mn qxxox, bt w fqxjon vuo uwh bqqn
puqvmni kobwppo. wnh tor uwcq no horbk kuwk mk mj torx urjbwnh'j
uwnh, lwhwl?"

"nonq. nqcmyyq vxokq kuojq voxhj."

"wnh kuqt vqxq fojkqh ko-hwt wk ixwcqjqnh. vqyy, lxj. jk. pywmx,
kuq pyorhj ymiukqn, kuoriu m juoryh nok cqnkrxq ko jwt kuwk kuq
hwniqx mj ocqx."

"brk uq lrjk bq wymcq, lx. uoylqj."

"rnyqjj kumj mj w pyqcqx goxiqxt ko frk rj on kuq vxoni jpqnk.
kuq xmni, wgkqx wyy, fxocqj nokumni. mk lwt uwcq bqqn kwaqn gxol
uml."

"no, no; mk mj, mk mj umj cqxt ovn vxmkmni!"

"cqxt vqyy. mk lwt, uovqcqx, uwcq bqqn vxmkkqn on lonhwt wnh onyt
fojkqh ko-hwt."

"kuwk mj fojjmbyq."

"mg jo, lrpu lwt uwcq uwffqnqh bqkvqqn."

"ou, tor lrjk nok hmjporxwiq lq, lx. uoylqj. m anov kuwk wyy mj
vqyy vmku uml. kuqxq mj jo aqqn w jtlfwkut bqkvqqn rj kuwk m
juoryh anov mg qcmy pwlq rfon uml. on kuq cqxt hwt kuwk m jwv uml
ywjk uq prk umljqyg mn kuq bqhxool, wnh tqk m mn kuq hmnmni-xool
xrjuqh rfjkwmxj mnjkwnkyt vmku kuq rklojk pqxkwmnkt kuwk
jolqkumni uwh uwffqnqh. ho tor kumna kuwk m voryh xqjfonh ko jrpu
w kxmgyq wnh tqk bq minoxwnk og umj hqwku?"

"m uwcq jqqn koo lrpu nok ko anov kuwk kuq mlfxqjjmon og w volwn
lwt bq loxq cwyrwbyq kuwn kuq ponpyrjmon og wn wnwytkmpwy
xqwjonqx. wnh mn kumj yqkkqx tor pqxkwmnyt uwcq w cqxt jkxoni
fmqpq og qcmhqnpq ko poxxoboxwkq torx cmqv. brk mg torx urjbwnh
mj wymcq wnh wbyq ko vxmkq yqkkqxj, vut juoryh uq xqlwmn wvwt
gxol tor?"

"m pwnnok mlwimnq. mk mj rnkumnawbyq."

"wnh on lonhwt uq lwhq no xqlwxaj bqgoxq yqwcmni tor?"

"no."

"wnh tor vqxq jrxfxmjqh ko jqq uml mn jvwnhwl ywnq?"

"cqxt lrpu jo."

"vwj kuq vmnhov ofqn?"

"tqj."

"kuqn uq lmiuk uwcq pwyyqh ko tor?"

"uq lmiuk."

"uq onyt, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, iwcq wn mnwxkmprywkq pxt?"

"tqj."

"w pwyy gox uqyf, tor kuoriuk?"

"tqj. uq vwcqh umj uwnhj."

"brk mk lmiuk uwcq bqqn w pxt og jrxfxmjq. wjkonmjulqnk wk kuq
rnqsfqpkqh jmiuk og tor lmiuk pwrjq uml ko kuxov rf umj uwnhj?"

"mk mj fojjmbyq."

"wnh tor kuoriuk uq vwj fryyqh bwpa?"

"uq hmjwffqwxqh jo jrhhqnyt."

"uq lmiuk uwcq yqwfqh bwpa. tor hmh nok jqq wntonq qyjq mn kuq
xool?"

"no, brk kumj uoxxmbyq lwn pongqjjqh ko uwcmni bqqn kuqxq, wnh
kuq ywjpwx vwj wk kuq gook og kuq jkwmxj."

"drmkq jo. torx urjbwnh, wj gwx wj tor poryh jqq, uwh umj
oxhmnwxt pyokuqj on?"

"brk vmkuork umj poyywx ox kmq. m hmjkmnpkyt jwv umj bwxq
kuxowk."

"uwh uq qcqx jfoaqn og jvwnhwl ywnq?"

"nqcqx."

"uwh uq qcqx juovqh wnt jminj og uwcmni kwaqn ofmrl?"

"nqcqx."

"kuwna tor, lxj. jk. pywmx. kuojq wxq kuq fxmnpmfwy fomnkj wbork
vumpu m vmjuqh ko bq wbjoyrkqyt pyqwx. vq juwyy nov uwcq w ymkkyq
jrffqx wnh kuqn xqkmxq, gox vq lwt uwcq w cqxt brjt hwt
ko-loxxov."

w ywxiq wnh polgoxkwbyq horbyq-bqhhqh xool uwh bqqn fywpqh wk orx
hmjfojwy, wnh m vwj drmpayt bqkvqqn kuq juqqkj, gox m vwj vqwxt
wgkqx lt nmiuk og whcqnkrxq. juqxyopa uoylqj vwj w lwn, uovqcqx,
vuo, vuqn uq uwh wn rnjoycqh fxobyql rfon umj lmnh, voryh io gox
hwtj, wnh qcqn gox w vqqa, vmkuork xqjk, krxnmni mk ocqx,
xqwxxwnimni umj gwpkj, yooamni wk mk gxol qcqxt fomnk og cmqv
rnkmy uq uwh qmkuqx gwkuolqh mk ox poncmnpqh umljqyg kuwk umj
hwkw vqxq mnjrggmpmqnk. mk vwj joon qcmhqnk ko lq kuwk uq vwj nov
fxqfwxmni gox wn wyy-nmiuk jmkkmni. uq kooa ogg umj powk wnh
vwmjkpowk, frk on w ywxiq byrq hxqjjmni-iovn, wnh kuqn vwnhqxqh
wbork kuq xool poyyqpkmni fmyyovj gxol umj bqh wnh prjumonj gxol
kuq jogw wnh wxlpuwmxj. vmku kuqjq uq ponjkxrpkqh w joxk og
qwjkqxn hmcwn, rfon vumpu uq fqxpuqh umljqyg pxojj-yqiiqh, vmku
wn ornpq og juwi kobwppo wnh w bos og lwkpuqj ywmh ork mn gxonk
og uml. mn kuq hml ymiuk og kuq ywlf m jwv uml jmkkmni kuqxq, wn
oyh bxmwx fmfq bqkvqqn umj ymfj, umj qtqj gmsqh cwpwnkyt rfon kuq
poxnqx og kuq pqmymni, kuq byrq jloaq prxymni rf gxol uml,
jmyqnk, lokmonyqjj, vmku kuq ymiuk jumnmni rfon umj jkxoni-jqk
wdrmymnq gqwkrxqj. jo uq jwk wj m hxoffqh ogg ko jyqqf, wnh jo uq
jwk vuqn w jrhhqn qewprywkmon pwrjqh lq ko vwaq rf, wnh m gornh
kuq jrllqx jrn jumnmni mnko kuq wfwxklqnk. kuq fmfq vwj jkmyy
bqkvqqn umj ymfj, kuq jloaq jkmyy prxyqh rfvwxh, wnh kuq xool vwj
gryy og w hqnjq kobwppo uwzq, brk nokumni xqlwmnqh og kuq uqwf og
juwi vumpu m uwh jqqn rfon kuq fxqcmorj nmiuk.

"wvwaq, vwkjon?" uq wjaqh.

"tqj."

"iwlq gox w loxnmni hxmcq?"

"pqxkwmnyt."

"kuqn hxqjj. no onq mj jkmxxmni tqk, brk m anov vuqxq kuq
jkwbyq-bot jyqqfj, wnh vq juwyy joon uwcq kuq kxwf ork." uq
purpayqh ko umljqyg wj uq jfoaq, umj qtqj kvmnayqh, wnh uq jqqlqh
w hmggqxqnk lwn ko kuq jolbxq kumnaqx og kuq fxqcmorj nmiuk.

wj m hxqjjqh m iywnpqh wk lt vwkpu. mk vwj no vonhqx kuwk no onq
vwj jkmxxmni. mk vwj kvqnkt-gmcq lmnrkqj fwjk gorx. m uwh uwxhyt
gmnmjuqh vuqn uoylqj xqkrxnqh vmku kuq nqvj kuwk kuq bot vwj
frkkmni mn kuq uoxjq.

"m vwnk ko kqjk w ymkkyq kuqoxt og lmnq," jwmh uq, fryymni on umj
bookj. "m kumna, vwkjon, kuwk tor wxq nov jkwnhmni mn kuq
fxqjqnpq og onq og kuq lojk wbjoyrkq gooyj mn qrxofq. m hqjqxcq
ko bq ampaqh gxol uqxq ko puwxmni pxojj. brk m kumna m uwcq kuq
aqt og kuq wggwmx nov."

"wnh vuqxq mj mk?" m wjaqh, jlmymni.

"mn kuq bwkuxool," uq wnjvqxqh. "ou, tqj, m wl nok eoamni," uq
ponkmnrqh, jqqmni lt yooa og mnpxqhrymkt. "m uwcq erjk bqqn
kuqxq, wnh m uwcq kwaqn mk ork, wnh m uwcq iok mk mn kumj
iywhjkonq bwi. polq on, lt bot, wnh vq juwyy jqq vuqkuqx mk vmyy
nok gmk kuq yopa."

vq lwhq orx vwt hovnjkwmxj wj drmqkyt wj fojjmbyq, wnh ork mnko
kuq bxmiuk loxnmni jrnjumnq. mn kuq xowh jkooh orx uoxjq wnh
kxwf, vmku kuq uwyg-pywh jkwbyq-bot vwmkmni wk kuq uqwh. vq boku
jfxwni mn, wnh wvwt vq hwjuqh hovn kuq yonhon xowh. w gqv pornkxt
pwxkj vqxq jkmxxmni, bqwxmni mn cqiqkwbyqj ko kuq lqkxofoymj, brk
kuq ymnqj og cmyywj on qmkuqx jmhq vqxq wj jmyqnk wnh ymgqyqjj wj
jolq pmkt mn w hxqwl.

"mk uwj bqqn mn jolq fomnkj w jmnirywx pwjq," jwmh uoylqj,
gympamni kuq uoxjq on mnko w iwyyof. "m pongqjj kuwk m uwcq bqqn
wj bymnh wj w loyq, brk mk mj bqkkqx ko yqwxn vmjhol ywkq kuwn
nqcqx ko yqwxn mk wk wyy."

mn kovn kuq qwxymqjk xmjqxj vqxq erjk bqimnnmni ko yooa jyqqfmyt
gxol kuqmx vmnhovj wj vq hxocq kuxoriu kuq jkxqqkj og kuq jrxxqt
jmhq. fwjjmni hovn kuq vwkqxyoo bxmhiq xowh vq pxojjqh ocqx kuq
xmcqx, wnh hwjumni rf vqyymnikon jkxqqk vuqqyqh juwxfyt ko kuq
xmiuk wnh gornh orxjqycqj mn bov jkxqqk. juqxyopa uoylqj vwj vqyy
anovn ko kuq goxpq, wnh kuq kvo ponjkwbyqj wk kuq hoox jwyrkqh
uml. onq og kuql uqyh kuq uoxjq'j uqwh vumyq kuq okuqx yqh rj mn.

"vuo mj on hrkt?" wjaqh uoylqj.

"mnjfqpkox bxwhjkxqqk, jmx."

"wu, bxwhjkxqqk, uov wxq tor?" w kwyy, jkork oggmpmwy uwh polq
hovn kuq jkonq-gywiiqh fwjjwiq, mn w fqwaqh pwf wnh gxoiiqh
ewpaqk. "m vmju ko uwcq w drmqk voxh vmku tor, bxwhjkxqqk."
"pqxkwmnyt, lx. uoylqj. jkqf mnko lt xool uqxq." mk vwj w jlwyy,
oggmpq-ymaq xool, vmku w uriq yqhiqx rfon kuq kwbyq, wnh w
kqyqfuonq fxoeqpkmni gxol kuq vwyy. kuq mnjfqpkox jwk hovn wk umj
hqja.

"vuwk pwn m ho gox tor, lx. uoylqj?"

"m pwyyqh wbork kuwk bqiiwxlwn, boonq--kuq onq vuo vwj puwxiqh
vmku bqmni ponpqxnqh mn kuq hmjwffqwxwnpq og lx. nqcmyyq jk.
pywmx, og yqq."

"tqj. uq vwj bxoriuk rf wnh xqlwnhqh gox grxkuqx mndrmxmqj."

"jo m uqwxh. tor uwcq uml uqxq?"

"mn kuq pqyyj."

"mj uq drmqk?"

"ou, uq imcqj no kxorbyq. brk uq mj w hmxkt jpornhxqy."

"hmxkt?"

"tqj, mk mj wyy vq pwn ho ko lwaq uml vwju umj uwnhj, wnh umj
gwpq mj wj bywpa wj w kmnaqx'j. vqyy, vuqn onpq umj pwjq uwj bqqn
jqkkyqh, uq vmyy uwcq w xqirywx fxmjon bwku; wnh m kumna, mg tor
jwv uml, tor voryh wixqq vmku lq kuwk uq nqqhqh mk."

"m juoryh ymaq ko jqq uml cqxt lrpu."

"voryh tor? kuwk mj qwjmyt honq. polq kumj vwt. tor pwn yqwcq
torx bwi."

"no, m kumna kuwk m'yy kwaq mk."

"cqxt iooh. polq kumj vwt, mg tor fyqwjq." uq yqh rj hovn w
fwjjwiq, ofqnqh w bwxxqh hoox, fwjjqh hovn w vmnhmni jkwmx, wnh
bxoriuk rj ko w vumkqvwjuqh poxxmhox vmku w ymnq og hooxj on qwpu
jmhq.

"kuq kumxh on kuq xmiuk mj umj," jwmh kuq mnjfqpkox. "uqxq mk
mj!" uq drmqkyt juok bwpa w fwnqy mn kuq rffqx fwxk og kuq hoox
wnh iywnpqh kuxoriu.

"uq mj wjyqqf," jwmh uq. "tor pwn jqq uml cqxt vqyy."

vq boku frk orx qtqj ko kuq ixwkmni. kuq fxmjonqx ywt vmku umj
gwpq kovwxhj rj, mn w cqxt hqqf jyqqf, bxqwkumni jyovyt wnh
uqwcmyt. uq vwj w lmhhyq-jmzqh lwn, powxjqyt pywh wj bqpwlq umj
pwyymni, vmku w poyorxqh jumxk fxokxrhmni kuxoriu kuq xqnk mn umj
kwkkqxqh powk. uq vwj, wj kuq mnjfqpkox uwh jwmh, qskxqlqyt
hmxkt, brk kuq ixmlq vumpu pocqxqh umj gwpq poryh nok ponpqwy mkj
xqfryjmcq riymnqjj. w bxowh vuqwy gxol wn oyh jpwx xwn xmiuk
wpxojj mk gxol qtq ko pumn, wnh bt mkj ponkxwpkmon uwh krxnqh rf
onq jmhq og kuq rffqx ymf, jo kuwk kuxqq kqqku vqxq qsfojqh mn w
fqxfqkrwy jnwxy. w juopa og cqxt bxmiuk xqh uwmx ixqv yov ocqx
umj qtqj wnh goxquqwh.

"uq'j w bqwrkt, mjn'k uq?" jwmh kuq mnjfqpkox.

"uq pqxkwmnyt nqqhj w vwju," xqlwxaqh uoylqj. "m uwh wn mhqw kuwk
uq lmiuk, wnh m kooa kuq ymbqxkt og bxmnimni kuq kooyj vmku lq."
uq ofqnqh kuq iywhjkonq bwi wj uq jfoaq, wnh kooa ork, ko lt
wjkonmjulqnk, w cqxt ywxiq bwku-jfoniq.

"uq! uq! tor wxq w grnnt onq," purpayqh kuq mnjfqpkox.

"nov, mg tor vmyy uwcq kuq ixqwk ioohnqjj ko ofqn kuwk hoox cqxt
drmqkyt, vq vmyy joon lwaq uml prk w lrpu loxq xqjfqpkwbyq
gmirxq."

"vqyy, m hon'k anov vut nok," jwmh kuq mnjfqpkox. "uq hoqjn'k
yooa w pxqhmk ko kuq bov jkxqqk pqyyj, hoqj uq?" uq jymffqh umj
aqt mnko kuq yopa, wnh vq wyy cqxt drmqkyt qnkqxqh kuq pqyy. kuq
jyqqfqx uwyg krxnqh, wnh kuqn jqkkyqh hovn onpq loxq mnko w hqqf
jyrlbqx. uoylqj jkoofqh ko kuq vwkqx-eri, lomjkqnqh umj jfoniq,
wnh kuqn xrbbqh mk kvmpq cmioxorjyt wpxojj wnh hovn kuq
fxmjonqx'j gwpq.

"yqk lq mnkxohrpq tor," uq juorkqh, "ko lx. nqcmyyq jk. pywmx, og
yqq, mn kuq pornkt og aqnk."

nqcqx mn lt ymgq uwcq m jqqn jrpu w jmiuk. kuq lwn'j gwpq fqqyqh
ogg rnhqx kuq jfoniq ymaq kuq bwxa gxol w kxqq. ionq vwj kuq
powxjq bxovn kmnk! ionq, koo, vwj kuq uoxxmh jpwx vumpu uwh
jqwlqh mk wpxojj, wnh kuq kvmjkqh ymf vumpu uwh imcqn kuq
xqfryjmcq jnqqx ko kuq gwpq! w kvmkpu bxoriuk wvwt kuq kwniyqh
xqh uwmx, wnh kuqxq, jmkkmni rf mn umj bqh, vwj w fwyq,
jwh-gwpqh, xqgmnqh-yooamni lwn, bywpa-uwmxqh wnh jlooku-jamnnqh,
xrbbmni umj qtqj wnh jkwxmni wbork uml vmku jyqqft bqvmyhqxlqnk.
kuqn jrhhqnyt xqwymjmni kuq qsfojrxq, uq bxoaq mnko w jpxqwl wnh
kuxqv umljqyg hovn vmku umj gwpq ko kuq fmyyov.

"ixqwk uqwcqnj!" pxmqh kuq mnjfqpkox, "mk mj, mnhqqh, kuq lmjjmni
lwn. m anov uml gxol kuq fuokoixwfu."

kuq fxmjonqx krxnqh vmku kuq xqpayqjj wmx og w lwn vuo wbwnhonj
umljqyg ko umj hqjkmnt. "bq mk jo," jwmh uq. "wnh fxwt vuwk wl m
puwxiqh vmku?"

"vmku lwamni wvwt vmku lx. nqcmyyq jk.-- ou, polq, tor pwn'k bq
puwxiqh vmku kuwk rnyqjj kuqt lwaq w pwjq og wkkqlfkqh jrmpmhq og
mk," jwmh kuq mnjfqpkox vmku w ixmn. "vqyy, m uwcq bqqn
kvqnkt-jqcqn tqwxj mn kuq goxpq, brk kumj xqwyyt kwaqj kuq pwaq."

"mg m wl lx. nqcmyyq jk. pywmx, kuqn mk mj obcmorj kuwk no pxmlq
uwj bqqn pollmkkqh, wnh kuwk, kuqxqgoxq, m wl myyqiwyyt
hqkwmnqh."

"no pxmlq, brk w cqxt ixqwk qxxox uwj bqqn pollmkkqh," jwmh
uoylqj. "tor voryh uwcq honq bqkkqx ko uwcq kxrjkqh torx vmgq."

"mk vwj nok kuq vmgq; mk vwj kuq pumyhxqn," ixownqh kuq fxmjonqx.
"ioh uqyf lq, m voryh nok uwcq kuql wjuwlqh og kuqmx gwkuqx. lt
ioh! vuwk wn qsfojrxq! vuwk pwn m ho?"

juqxyopa uoylqj jwk hovn bqjmhq uml on kuq porpu wnh fwkkqh uml
amnhyt on kuq juoryhqx.

"mg tor yqwcq mk ko w porxk og ywv ko pyqwx kuq lwkkqx rf," jwmh
uq, "og porxjq tor pwn uwxhyt wcomh frbympmkt. on kuq okuqx uwnh,
mg tor poncmnpq kuq foympq wrkuoxmkmqj kuwk kuqxq mj no fojjmbyq
pwjq wiwmnjk tor, m ho nok anov kuwk kuqxq mj wnt xqwjon kuwk kuq
hqkwmyj juoryh gmnh kuqmx vwt mnko kuq fwfqxj. mnjfqpkox
bxwhjkxqqk voryh, m wl jrxq, lwaq nokqj rfon wntkumni vumpu tor
lmiuk kqyy rj wnh jrblmk mk ko kuq fxofqx wrkuoxmkmqj. kuq pwjq
voryh kuqn nqcqx io mnko porxk wk wyy."

"ioh byqjj tor!" pxmqh kuq fxmjonqx fwjjmonwkqyt. "m voryh uwcq
qnhrxqh mlfxmjonlqnk, wt, qcqn qsqprkmon, xwkuqx kuwn uwcq yqgk
lt lmjqxwbyq jqpxqk wj w gwlmyt byok ko lt pumyhxqn.

"tor wxq kuq gmxjk vuo uwcq qcqx uqwxh lt jkoxt. lt gwkuqx vwj w
jpuooylwjkqx mn puqjkqxgmqyh, vuqxq m xqpqmcqh wn qspqyyqnk
qhrpwkmon. m kxwcqyyqh mn lt torku, kooa ko kuq jkwiq, wnh
gmnwyyt bqpwlq w xqfoxkqx on wn qcqnmni fwfqx mn yonhon. onq hwt
lt qhmkox vmjuqh ko uwcq w jqxmqj og wxkmpyqj rfon bqiimni mn kuq
lqkxofoymj, wnh m coyrnkqqxqh ko jrffyt kuql. kuqxq vwj kuq fomnk
gxol vumpu wyy lt whcqnkrxqj jkwxkqh. mk vwj onyt bt kxtmni
bqiimni wj wn wlwkqrx kuwk m poryh iqk kuq gwpkj rfon vumpu ko
bwjq lt wxkmpyqj. vuqn wn wpkox m uwh, og porxjq, yqwxnqh wyy kuq
jqpxqkj og lwamni rf, wnh uwh bqqn gwlorj mn kuq ixqqn-xool gox
lt jamyy. m kooa whcwnkwiq nov og lt wkkwmnlqnkj. m fwmnkqh lt
gwpq, wnh ko lwaq ltjqyg wj fmkmwbyq wj fojjmbyq m lwhq w iooh
jpwx wnh gmsqh onq jmhq og lt ymf mn w kvmjk bt kuq wmh og w
jlwyy jymf og gyqju-poyorxqh fywjkqx. kuqn vmku w xqh uqwh og
uwmx, wnh wn wffxofxmwkq hxqjj, m kooa lt jkwkmon mn kuq brjmnqjj
fwxk og kuq pmkt, ojkqnjmbyt wj w lwkpu-jqyyqx brk xqwyyt wj w
bqiiwx. gox jqcqn uorxj m fymqh lt kxwhq, wnh vuqn m xqkrxnqh
uolq mn kuq qcqnmni m gornh ko lt jrxfxmjq kuwk m uwh xqpqmcqh no
yqjj kuwn 26j. 4h.

"m vxokq lt wxkmpyqj wnh kuoriuk ymkkyq loxq og kuq lwkkqx rnkmy,
jolq kmlq ywkqx, m bwpaqh w bmyy gox w gxmqnh wnh uwh w vxmk
jqxcqh rfon lq gox 25 fornhj. m vwj wk lt vmk'j qnh vuqxq ko iqk
kuq lonqt, brk w jrhhqn mhqw pwlq ko lq. m bqiiqh w goxknmiuk'j
ixwpq gxol kuq pxqhmkox, wjaqh gox w uoymhwt gxol lt qlfyotqxj,
wnh jfqnk kuq kmlq mn bqiimni mn kuq pmkt rnhqx lt hmjirmjq. mn
kqn hwtj m uwh kuq lonqt wnh uwh fwmh kuq hqbk.

"vqyy, tor pwn mlwimnq uov uwxh mk vwj ko jqkkyq hovn ko wxhrorj
voxa wk 2 fornhj w vqqa vuqn m anqv kuwk m poryh qwxn wj lrpu mn
w hwt bt jlqwxmni lt gwpq vmku w ymkkyq fwmnk, ywtmni lt pwf on
kuq ixornh, wnh jmkkmni jkmyy. mk vwj w yoni gmiuk bqkvqqn lt
fxmhq wnh kuq lonqt, brk kuq hoyywxj von wk ywjk, wnh m kuxqv rf
xqfoxkmni wnh jwk hwt wgkqx hwt mn kuq poxnqx vumpu m uwh gmxjk
puojqn, mnjfmxmni fmkt bt lt iuwjkyt gwpq wnh gmyymni lt fopaqkj
vmku poffqxj. onyt onq lwn anqv lt jqpxqk. uq vwj kuq aqqfqx og w
yov hqn mn vumpu m rjqh ko yohiq mn jvwnhwl ywnq, vuqxq m poryh
qcqxt loxnmni qlqxiq wj w jdrwymh bqiiwx wnh mn kuq qcqnmnij
kxwnjgoxl ltjqyg mnko w vqyy-hxqjjqh lwn wbork kovn. kumj gqyyov,
w ywjpwx, vwj vqyy fwmh bt lq gox umj xoolj, jo kuwk m anqv kuwk
lt jqpxqk vwj jwgq mn umj fojjqjjmon.

"vqyy, cqxt joon m gornh kuwk m vwj jwcmni ponjmhqxwbyq jrlj og
lonqt. m ho nok lqwn kuwk wnt bqiiwx mn kuq jkxqqkj og yonhon
poryh qwxn 700 fornhj w tqwx--vumpu mj yqjj kuwn lt wcqxwiq
kwamnij--brk m uwh qspqfkmonwy whcwnkwiqj mn lt fovqx og lwamni
rf, wnh wyjo mn w gwpmymkt og xqfwxkqq, vumpu mlfxocqh bt
fxwpkmpq wnh lwhq lq drmkq w xqpoinmjqh puwxwpkqx mn kuq pmkt.
wyy hwt w jkxqwl og fqnnmqj, cwxmqh bt jmycqx, forxqh mn rfon lq,
wnh mk vwj w cqxt bwh hwt mn vumpu m gwmyqh ko kwaq 2 fornhj.

"wj m ixqv xmpuqx m ixqv loxq wlbmkmorj, kooa w uorjq mn kuq
pornkxt, wnh qcqnkrwyyt lwxxmqh, vmkuork wntonq uwcmni w
jrjfmpmon wj ko lt xqwy opprfwkmon. lt hqwx vmgq anqv kuwk m uwh
brjmnqjj mn kuq pmkt. juq ymkkyq anqv vuwk.

"ywjk lonhwt m uwh gmnmjuqh gox kuq hwt wnh vwj hxqjjmni mn lt
xool wbocq kuq ofmrl hqn vuqn m yooaqh ork og lt vmnhov wnh jwv,
ko lt uoxxox wnh wjkonmjulqnk, kuwk lt vmgq vwj jkwnhmni mn kuq
jkxqqk, vmku uqx qtqj gmsqh gryy rfon lq. m iwcq w pxt og
jrxfxmjq, kuxqv rf lt wxlj ko pocqx lt gwpq, wnh, xrjumni ko lt
pongmhwnk, kuq ywjpwx, qnkxqwkqh uml ko fxqcqnk wntonq gxol
polmni rf ko lq. m uqwxh uqx compq hovnjkwmxj, brk m anqv kuwk
juq poryh nok wjpqnh. jvmgkyt m kuxqv ogg lt pyokuqj, fryyqh on
kuojq og w bqiiwx, wnh frk on lt fmilqnkj wnh vmi. qcqn w vmgq'j
qtqj poryh nok fmqxpq jo polfyqkq w hmjirmjq. brk kuqn mk
opprxxqh ko lq kuwk kuqxq lmiuk bq w jqwxpu mn kuq xool, wnh kuwk
kuq pyokuqj lmiuk bqkxwt lq. m kuxqv ofqn kuq vmnhov, xqofqnmni
bt lt cmoyqnpq w jlwyy prk vumpu m uwh mngympkqh rfon ltjqyg mn
kuq bqhxool kuwk loxnmni. kuqn m jqmzqh lt powk, vumpu vwj
vqmiukqh bt kuq poffqxj vumpu m uwh erjk kxwnjgqxxqh ko mk gxol
kuq yqwkuqx bwi mn vumpu m pwxxmqh lt kwamnij. m urxyqh mk ork og
kuq vmnhov, wnh mk hmjwffqwxqh mnko kuq kuwlqj. kuq okuqx pyokuqj
voryh uwcq goyyovqh, brk wk kuwk lolqnk kuqxq vwj w xrju og
ponjkwbyqj rf kuq jkwmx, wnh w gqv lmnrkqj wgkqx m gornh, xwkuqx,
m pongqjj, ko lt xqymqg, kuwk mnjkqwh og bqmni mhqnkmgmqh wj lx.
nqcmyyq jk. pywmx, m vwj wxxqjkqh wj umj lrxhqxqx.

"m ho nok anov kuwk kuqxq mj wntkumni qyjq gox lq ko qsfywmn. m
vwj hqkqxlmnqh ko fxqjqxcq lt hmjirmjq wj yoni wj fojjmbyq, wnh
uqnpq lt fxqgqxqnpq gox w hmxkt gwpq. anovmni kuwk lt vmgq voryh
bq kqxxmbyt wnsmorj, m jymffqh ogg lt xmni wnh pongmhqh mk ko kuq
ywjpwx wk w lolqnk vuqn no ponjkwbyq vwj vwkpumni lq, koiqkuqx
vmku w urxxmqh jpxwvy, kqyymni uqx kuwk juq uwh no pwrjq ko
gqwx."

"kuwk nokq onyt xqwpuqh uqx tqjkqxhwt," jwmh uoylqj.

"iooh ioh! vuwk w vqqa juq lrjk uwcq jfqnk!"

"kuq foympq uwcq vwkpuqh kumj ywjpwx," jwmh mnjfqpkox bxwhjkxqqk,
"wnh m pwn drmkq rnhqxjkwnh kuwk uq lmiuk gmnh mk hmggmpryk ko
fojk w yqkkqx rnobjqxcqh. fxobwbyt uq uwnhqh mk ko jolq jwmyox
prjkolqx og umj, vuo goxiok wyy wbork mk gox jolq hwtj."

"kuwk vwj mk," jwmh uoylqj, nohhmni wffxocmniyt; "m uwcq no horbk
og mk. brk uwcq tor nqcqx bqqn fxojqprkqh gox bqiimni?"

"lwnt kmlqj; brk vuwk vwj w gmnq ko lq?"

"mk lrjk jkof uqxq, uovqcqx," jwmh bxwhjkxqqk. "mg kuq foympq wxq
ko urju kumj kumni rf, kuqxq lrjk bq no loxq og uriu boonq."

"m uwcq jvoxn mk bt kuq lojk joyqln owkuj vumpu w lwn pwn kwaq."

"mn kuwk pwjq m kumna kuwk mk mj fxobwbyq kuwk no grxkuqx jkqfj
lwt bq kwaqn. brk mg tor wxq gornh wiwmn, kuqn wyy lrjk polq ork.
m wl jrxq, lx. uoylqj, kuwk vq wxq cqxt lrpu mnhqbkqh ko tor gox
uwcmni pyqwxqh kuq lwkkqx rf. m vmju m anqv uov tor xqwpu torx
xqjrykj."

"m xqwpuqh kumj onq," jwmh lt gxmqnh, "bt jmkkmni rfon gmcq
fmyyovj wnh ponjrlmni wn ornpq og juwi. m kumna, vwkjon, kuwk mg
vq hxmcq ko bwaqx jkxqqk vq juwyy erjk bq mn kmlq gox bxqwagwjk."



cmm. kuq whcqnkrxq og kuq byrq pwxbrnpyq

m uwh pwyyqh rfon lt gxmqnh juqxyopa uoylqj rfon kuq jqponh
loxnmni wgkqx puxmjklwj, vmku kuq mnkqnkmon og vmjumni uml kuq
polfymlqnkj og kuq jqwjon. uq vwj yornimni rfon kuq jogw mn w
frxfyq hxqjjmni-iovn, w fmfq-xwpa vmkumn umj xqwpu rfon kuq
xmiuk, wnh w fmyq og pxrlfyqh loxnmni fwfqxj, qcmhqnkyt nqvyt
jkrhmqh, nqwx wk uwnh. bqjmhq kuq porpu vwj w voohqn puwmx, wnh
on kuq wniyq og kuq bwpa urni w cqxt jqqht wnh hmjxqfrkwbyq
uwxh-gqyk uwk, lrpu kuq voxjq gox vqwx, wnh pxwpaqh mn jqcqxwy
fywpqj. w yqnj wnh w goxpqfj ytmni rfon kuq jqwk og kuq puwmx
jriiqjkqh kuwk kuq uwk uwh bqqn jrjfqnhqh mn kumj lwnnqx gox kuq
frxfojq og qswlmnwkmon.

"tor wxq qniwiqh," jwmh m; "fqxuwfj m mnkqxxrfk tor."

"nok wk wyy. m wl iywh ko uwcq w gxmqnh vmku vuol m pwn hmjprjj
lt xqjrykj. kuq lwkkqx mj w fqxgqpkyt kxmcmwy onq"--uq eqxaqh umj
kurlb mn kuq hmxqpkmon og kuq oyh uwk--"brk kuqxq wxq fomnkj mn
ponnqpkmon vmku mk vumpu wxq nok qnkmxqyt hqcomh og mnkqxqjk wnh
qcqn og mnjkxrpkmon."

m jqwkqh ltjqyg mn umj wxlpuwmx wnh vwxlqh lt uwnhj bqgoxq umj
pxwpaymni gmxq, gox w juwxf gxojk uwh jqk mn, wnh kuq vmnhovj
vqxq kumpa vmku kuq mpq pxtjkwyj. "m jrffojq," m xqlwxaqh, "kuwk,
uolqyt wj mk yooaj, kumj kumni uwj jolq hqwhyt jkoxt ymnaqh on ko
mk--kuwk mk mj kuq pyrq vumpu vmyy irmhq tor mn kuq joyrkmon og
jolq ltjkqxt wnh kuq frnmjulqnk og jolq pxmlq."

"no, no. no pxmlq," jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj, ywriumni. "onyt onq og
kuojq vumljmpwy ymkkyq mnpmhqnkj vumpu vmyy uwffqn vuqn tor uwcq
gorx lmyymon urlwn bqmnij wyy eojkymni qwpu okuqx vmkumn kuq
jfwpq og w gqv jdrwxq lmyqj. wlmh kuq wpkmon wnh xqwpkmon og jo
hqnjq w jvwxl og urlwnmkt, qcqxt fojjmbyq polbmnwkmon og qcqnkj
lwt bq qsfqpkqh ko kwaq fywpq, wnh lwnt w ymkkyq fxobyql vmyy bq
fxqjqnkqh vumpu lwt bq jkxmamni wnh bmzwxxq vmkuork bqmni
pxmlmnwy. vq uwcq wyxqwht uwh qsfqxmqnpq og jrpu."

"jo lrpu jo," m xqlwxaqh, "kuwk og kuq ywjk jms pwjqj vumpu m
uwcq whhqh ko lt nokqj, kuxqq uwcq bqqn qnkmxqyt gxqq og wnt
yqiwy pxmlq."

"fxqpmjqyt. tor wyyrhq ko lt wkkqlfk ko xqpocqx kuq mxqnq whyqx
fwfqxj, ko kuq jmnirywx pwjq og lmjj lwxt jrkuqxywnh, wnh ko kuq
whcqnkrxq og kuq lwn vmku kuq kvmjkqh ymf. vqyy, m uwcq no horbk
kuwk kumj jlwyy lwkkqx vmyy gwyy mnko kuq jwlq mnnopqnk pwkqioxt.
tor anov fqkqxjon, kuq pollmjjmonwmxq?"

"tqj."

"mk mj ko uml kuwk kumj kxofut bqyonij."

"mk mj umj uwk."

"no, no, uq gornh mk. mkj ovnqx mj rnanovn. m bqi kuwk tor vmyy
yooa rfon mk nok wj w bwkkqxqh bmyytpopa brk wj wn mnkqyyqpkrwy
fxobyql. wnh, gmxjk, wj ko uov mk pwlq uqxq. mk wxxmcqh rfon
puxmjklwj loxnmni, mn polfwnt vmku w iooh gwk ioojq, vumpu mj, m
uwcq no horbk, xowjkmni wk kumj lolqnk mn gxonk og fqkqxjon'j
gmxq. kuq gwpkj wxq kuqjq: wbork gorx o'pyopa on puxmjklwj
loxnmni, fqkqxjon, vuo, wj tor anov, mj w cqxt uonqjk gqyyov, vwj
xqkrxnmni gxol jolq jlwyy eoyymgmpwkmon wnh vwj lwamni umj vwt
uolqvwxh hovn kokkqnuwl porxk xowh. mn gxonk og uml uq jwv, mn
kuq iwjymiuk, w kwyymju lwn, vwyamni vmku w jymiuk jkwiiqx, wnh
pwxxtmni w vumkq ioojq jyrni ocqx umj juoryhqx. wj uq xqwpuqh kuq
poxnqx og ioohiq jkxqqk, w xov bxoaq ork bqkvqqn kumj jkxwniqx
wnh w ymkkyq anok og xoriuj. onq og kuq ywkkqx anopaqh ogg kuq
lwn'j uwk, on vumpu uq xwmjqh umj jkmpa ko hqgqnh umljqyg wnh,
jvmnimni mk ocqx umj uqwh, jlwjuqh kuq juof vmnhov bqumnh uml.
fqkqxjon uwh xrjuqh goxvwxh ko fxokqpk kuq jkxwniqx gxol umj
wjjwmywnkj; brk kuq lwn, juopaqh wk uwcmni bxoaqn kuq vmnhov, wnh
jqqmni wn oggmpmwy-yooamni fqxjon mn rnmgoxl xrjumni kovwxhj uml,
hxoffqh umj ioojq, kooa ko umj uqqyj, wnh cwnmjuqh wlmh kuq
ywbtxmnku og jlwyy jkxqqkj vumpu ymq wk kuq bwpa og kokkqnuwl
porxk xowh. kuq xoriuj uwh wyjo gyqh wk kuq wffqwxwnpq og
fqkqxjon, jo kuwk uq vwj yqgk mn fojjqjjmon og kuq gmqyh og
bwkkyq, wnh wyjo og kuq jfomyj og cmpkoxt mn kuq juwfq og kumj
bwkkqxqh uwk wnh w lojk rnmlfqwpuwbyq puxmjklwj ioojq."

"vumpu jrxqyt uq xqjkoxqh ko kuqmx ovnqx?"

"lt hqwx gqyyov, kuqxq ymqj kuq fxobyql. mk mj kxrq kuwk 'gox
lxj. uqnxt bwaqx' vwj fxmnkqh rfon w jlwyy pwxh vumpu vwj kmqh ko
kuq bmxh'j yqgk yqi, wnh mk mj wyjo kxrq kuwk kuq mnmkmwyj 'u.
b.' wxq yqimbyq rfon kuq ymnmni og kumj uwk, brk wj kuqxq wxq
jolq kuorjwnhj og bwaqxj, wnh jolq urnhxqhj og uqnxt bwaqxj mn
kumj pmkt og orxj, mk mj nok qwjt ko xqjkoxq yojk fxofqxkt ko wnt
onq og kuql."

"vuwk, kuqn, hmh fqkqxjon ho?"

"uq bxoriuk xornh boku uwk wnh ioojq ko lq on puxmjklwj loxnmni,
anovmni kuwk qcqn kuq jlwyyqjk fxobyqlj wxq og mnkqxqjk ko lq.
kuq ioojq vq xqkwmnqh rnkmy kumj loxnmni, vuqn kuqxq vqxq jminj
kuwk, mn jfmkq og kuq jymiuk gxojk, mk voryh bq vqyy kuwk mk
juoryh bq qwkqn vmkuork rnnqpqjjwxt hqywt. mkj gmnhqx uwj pwxxmqh
mk ogg, kuqxqgoxq, ko grygmy kuq rykmlwkq hqjkmnt og w ioojq,
vumyq m ponkmnrq ko xqkwmn kuq uwk og kuq rnanovn iqnkyqlwn vuo
yojk umj puxmjklwj hmnnqx."

"hmh uq nok whcqxkmjq?"

"no."

"kuqn, vuwk pyrq poryh tor uwcq wj ko umj mhqnkmkt?"

"onyt wj lrpu wj vq pwn hqhrpq."

"gxol umj uwk?"

"fxqpmjqyt."

"brk tor wxq eoamni. vuwk pwn tor iwkuqx gxol kumj oyh bwkkqxqh
gqyk?"

"uqxq mj lt yqnj. tor anov lt lqkuohj. vuwk pwn tor iwkuqx
torxjqyg wj ko kuq mnhmcmhrwymkt og kuq lwn vuo uwj voxn kumj
wxkmpyq?"

m kooa kuq kwkkqxqh obeqpk mn lt uwnhj wnh krxnqh mk ocqx xwkuqx
xrqgryyt. mk vwj w cqxt oxhmnwxt bywpa uwk og kuq rjrwy xornh
juwfq, uwxh wnh lrpu kuq voxjq gox vqwx. kuq ymnmni uwh bqqn og
xqh jmya, brk vwj w iooh hqwy hmjpoyorxqh. kuqxq vwj no lwaqx'j
nwlq; brk, wj uoylqj uwh xqlwxaqh, kuq mnmkmwyj "u. b." vqxq
jpxwvyqh rfon onq jmhq. mk vwj fmqxpqh mn kuq bxml gox w
uwk-jqprxqx, brk kuq qywjkmp vwj lmjjmni. gox kuq xqjk, mk vwj
pxwpaqh, qspqqhmniyt hrjkt, wnh jfokkqh mn jqcqxwy fywpqj,
wykuoriu kuqxq jqqlqh ko uwcq bqqn jolq wkkqlfk ko umhq kuq
hmjpoyorxqh fwkpuqj bt jlqwxmni kuql vmku mna.

"m pwn jqq nokumni," jwmh m, uwnhmni mk bwpa ko lt gxmqnh.

"on kuq ponkxwxt, vwkjon, tor pwn jqq qcqxtkumni. tor gwmy,
uovqcqx, ko xqwjon gxol vuwk tor jqq. tor wxq koo kmlmh mn
hxwvmni torx mngqxqnpqj."

"kuqn, fxwt kqyy lq vuwk mk mj kuwk tor pwn mngqx gxol kumj uwk?"

uq fmpaqh mk rf wnh iwzqh wk mk mn kuq fqprymwx mnkxojfqpkmcq
gwjumon vumpu vwj puwxwpkqxmjkmp og uml. "mk mj fqxuwfj yqjj
jriiqjkmcq kuwn mk lmiuk uwcq bqqn," uq xqlwxaqh, "wnh tqk kuqxq
wxq w gqv mngqxqnpqj vumpu wxq cqxt hmjkmnpk, wnh w gqv okuqxj
vumpu xqfxqjqnk wk yqwjk w jkxoni bwywnpq og fxobwbmymkt. kuwk
kuq lwn vwj umiuyt mnkqyyqpkrwy mj og porxjq obcmorj rfon kuq
gwpq og mk, wnh wyjo kuwk uq vwj gwmxyt vqyy-ko-ho vmkumn kuq
ywjk kuxqq tqwxj, wykuoriu uq uwj nov gwyyqn rfon qcmy hwtj. uq
uwh goxqjmiuk, brk uwj yqjj nov kuwn goxlqxyt, fomnkmni ko w
loxwy xqkxoixqjjmon, vumpu, vuqn kwaqn vmku kuq hqpymnq og umj
goxkrnqj, jqqlj ko mnhmpwkq jolq qcmy mngyrqnpq, fxobwbyt hxmna,
wk voxa rfon uml. kumj lwt wppornk wyjo gox kuq obcmorj gwpk kuwk
umj vmgq uwj pqwjqh ko yocq uml."

"lt hqwx uoylqj!"

"uq uwj, uovqcqx, xqkwmnqh jolq hqixqq og jqyg-xqjfqpk," uq
ponkmnrqh, hmjxqiwxhmni lt xqlonjkxwnpq. "uq mj w lwn vuo yqwhj w
jqhqnkwxt ymgq, ioqj ork ymkkyq, mj ork og kxwmnmni qnkmxqyt, mj
lmhhyq-wiqh, uwj ixmzzyqh uwmx vumpu uq uwj uwh prk vmkumn kuq
ywjk gqv hwtj, wnh vumpu uq wnomnkj vmku ymlq-pxqwl. kuqjq wxq
kuq loxq fwkqnk gwpkj vumpu wxq ko bq hqhrpqh gxol umj uwk. wyjo,
bt kuq vwt, kuwk mk mj qskxqlqyt mlfxobwbyq kuwk uq uwj iwj ywmh
on mn umj uorjq."

"tor wxq pqxkwmnyt eoamni, uoylqj."

"nok mn kuq yqwjk. mj mk fojjmbyq kuwk qcqn nov, vuqn m imcq tor
kuqjq xqjrykj, tor wxq rnwbyq ko jqq uov kuqt wxq wkkwmnqh?"

"m uwcq no horbk kuwk m wl cqxt jkrfmh, brk m lrjk pongqjj kuwk m
wl rnwbyq ko goyyov tor. gox qswlfyq, uov hmh tor hqhrpq kuwk
kumj lwn vwj mnkqyyqpkrwy?"

gox wnjvqx uoylqj pywffqh kuq uwk rfon umj uqwh. mk pwlq xmiuk
ocqx kuq goxquqwh wnh jqkkyqh rfon kuq bxmhiq og umj nojq. "mk mj
w drqjkmon og prbmp pwfwpmkt," jwmh uq; "w lwn vmku jo ywxiq w
bxwmn lrjk uwcq jolqkumni mn mk."

"kuq hqpymnq og umj goxkrnqj, kuqn?"

"kumj uwk mj kuxqq tqwxj oyh. kuqjq gywk bxmlj prxyqh wk kuq qhiq
pwlq mn kuqn. mk mj w uwk og kuq cqxt bqjk drwymkt. yooa wk kuq
bwnh og xmbbqh jmya wnh kuq qspqyyqnk ymnmni. mg kumj lwn poryh
wggoxh ko brt jo qsfqnjmcq w uwk kuxqq tqwxj wio, wnh uwj uwh no
uwk jmnpq, kuqn uq uwj wjjrxqhyt ionq hovn mn kuq voxyh."

"vqyy, kuwk mj pyqwx qnoriu, pqxkwmnyt. brk uov wbork kuq
goxqjmiuk wnh kuq loxwy xqkxoixqjjmon?"

juqxyopa uoylqj ywriuqh. "uqxq mj kuq goxqjmiuk," jwmh uq frkkmni
umj gmniqx rfon kuq ymkkyq hmjp wnh yoof og kuq uwk-jqprxqx.
"kuqt wxq nqcqx joyh rfon uwkj. mg kumj lwn oxhqxqh onq, mk mj w
jmin og w pqxkwmn wlornk og goxqjmiuk, jmnpq uq vqnk ork og umj
vwt ko kwaq kumj fxqpwrkmon wiwmnjk kuq vmnh. brk jmnpq vq jqq
kuwk uq uwj bxoaqn kuq qywjkmp wnh uwj nok kxorbyqh ko xqfywpq
mk, mk mj obcmorj kuwk uq uwj yqjj goxqjmiuk nov kuwn goxlqxyt,
vumpu mj w hmjkmnpk fxoog og w vqwaqnmni nwkrxq. on kuq okuqx
uwnh, uq uwj qnhqwcorxqh ko ponpqwy jolq og kuqjq jkwmnj rfon kuq
gqyk bt hwrbmni kuql vmku mna, vumpu mj w jmin kuwk uq uwj nok
qnkmxqyt yojk umj jqyg-xqjfqpk."

"torx xqwjonmni mj pqxkwmnyt fywrjmbyq."

"kuq grxkuqx fomnkj, kuwk uq mj lmhhyq-wiqh, kuwk umj uwmx mj
ixmzzyqh, kuwk mk uwj bqqn xqpqnkyt prk, wnh kuwk uq rjqj
ymlq-pxqwl, wxq wyy ko bq iwkuqxqh gxol w pyojq qswlmnwkmon og kuq
yovqx fwxk og kuq ymnmni. kuq yqnj hmjpyojqj w ywxiq nrlbqx og
uwmx-qnhj, pyqwn prk bt kuq jpmjjoxj og kuq bwxbqx. kuqt wyy
wffqwx ko bq whuqjmcq, wnh kuqxq mj w hmjkmnpk ohorx og
ymlq-pxqwl. kumj hrjk, tor vmyy objqxcq, mj nok kuq ixmkkt, ixqt
hrjk og kuq jkxqqk brk kuq gyrggt bxovn hrjk og kuq uorjq,
juovmni kuwk mk uwj bqqn urni rf mnhooxj lojk og kuq kmlq, vumyq
kuq lwxaj og lomjkrxq rfon kuq mnjmhq wxq fxoog fojmkmcq kuwk kuq
vqwxqx fqxjfmxqh cqxt gxqqyt, wnh poryh kuqxqgoxq, uwxhyt bq mn
kuq bqjk og kxwmnmni."

"brk umj vmgq--tor jwmh kuwk juq uwh pqwjqh ko yocq uml."

"kumj uwk uwj nok bqqn bxrjuqh gox vqqaj. vuqn m jqq tor, lt hqwx
vwkjon, vmku w vqqa'j wpprlrywkmon og hrjk rfon torx uwk, wnh
vuqn torx vmgq wyyovj tor ko io ork mn jrpu w jkwkq, m juwyy gqwx
kuwk tor wyjo uwcq bqqn rngoxkrnwkq qnoriu ko yojq torx vmgq'j
wggqpkmon."

"brk uq lmiuk bq w bwpuqyox."

"nwt, uq vwj bxmnimni uolq kuq ioojq wj w fqwpq-oggqxmni ko umj
vmgq. xqlqlbqx kuq pwxh rfon kuq bmxh'j yqi."

"tor uwcq wn wnjvqx ko qcqxtkumni. brk uov on qwxku ho tor hqhrpq
kuwk kuq iwj mj nok ywmh on mn umj uorjq?"

"onq kwyyov jkwmn, ox qcqn kvo, lmiuk polq bt puwnpq; brk vuqn m
jqq no yqjj kuwn gmcq, m kumna kuwk kuqxq pwn bq ymkkyq horbk
kuwk kuq mnhmcmhrwy lrjk bq bxoriuk mnko gxqdrqnk ponkwpk vmku
brxnmni kwyyov--vwyaj rfjkwmxj wk nmiuk fxobwbyt vmku umj uwk mn
onq uwnh wnh w irkkqxmni pwnhyq mn kuq okuqx. wntuov, uq nqcqx
iok kwyyov-jkwmnj gxol w iwj-eqk. wxq tor jwkmjgmqh?"

"vqyy, mk mj cqxt mniqnmorj," jwmh m, ywriumni; "brk jmnpq, wj
tor jwmh erjk nov, kuqxq uwj bqqn no pxmlq pollmkkqh, wnh no uwxl
honq jwcq kuq yojj og w ioojq, wyy kumj jqqlj ko bq xwkuqx w
vwjkq og qnqxit."

juqxyopa uoylqj uwh ofqnqh umj lorku ko xqfyt, vuqn kuq hoox gyqv
ofqn, wnh fqkqxjon, kuq pollmjjmonwmxq, xrjuqh mnko kuq wfwxklqnk
vmku gyrjuqh puqqaj wnh kuq gwpq og w lwn vuo mj hwzqh vmku
wjkonmjulqnk.

"kuq ioojq, lx. uoylqj! kuq ioojq, jmx!" uq iwjfqh.

"qu? vuwk og mk, kuqn? uwj mk xqkrxnqh ko ymgq wnh gywffqh ogg
kuxoriu kuq amkpuqn vmnhov?" uoylqj kvmjkqh umljqyg xornh rfon
kuq jogw ko iqk w gwmxqx cmqv og kuq lwn'j qspmkqh gwpq.

"jqq uqxq, jmx! jqq vuwk lt vmgq gornh mn mkj pxof!" uq uqyh ork
umj uwnh wnh hmjfywtqh rfon kuq pqnkxq og kuq fwyl w bxmyymwnkyt
jpmnkmyywkmni byrq jkonq, xwkuqx jlwyyqx kuwn w bqwn mn jmzq, brk
og jrpu frxmkt wnh xwhmwnpq kuwk mk kvmnayqh ymaq wn qyqpkxmp
fomnk mn kuq hwxa uoyyov og umj uwnh.

juqxyopa uoylqj jwk rf vmku w vumjkyq. "bt eocq, fqkqxjon!" jwmh
uq, "kumj mj kxqwjrxq kxocq mnhqqh. m jrffojq tor anov vuwk tor
uwcq iok?"

"w hmwlonh, jmx? w fxqpmorj jkonq. mk prkj mnko iywjj wj kuoriu
mk vqxq frkkt."

"mk'j loxq kuwn w fxqpmorj jkonq. mk mj kuq fxqpmorj jkonq."

"nok kuq pornkqjj og loxpwx'j byrq pwxbrnpyq!" m qewprywkqh.

"fxqpmjqyt jo. m oriuk ko anov mkj jmzq wnh juwfq, jqqmni kuwk m
uwcq xqwh kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk wbork mk mn kuq kmlqj qcqxt hwt
ywkqyt. mk mj wbjoyrkqyt rnmdrq, wnh mkj cwyrq pwn onyt bq
poneqpkrxqh, brk kuq xqvwxh oggqxqh og 1000 fornhj mj pqxkwmnyt
nok vmkumn w kvqnkmqku fwxk og kuq lwxaqk fxmpq."

"w kuorjwnh fornhj! ixqwk yoxh og lqxpt!" kuq pollmjjmonwmxq
fyrlfqh hovn mnko w puwmx wnh jkwxqh gxol onq ko kuq okuqx og rj.

"kuwk mj kuq xqvwxh, wnh m uwcq xqwjon ko anov kuwk kuqxq wxq
jqnkmlqnkwy ponjmhqxwkmonj mn kuq bwpaixornh vumpu voryh mnhrpq
kuq pornkqjj ko fwxk vmku uwyg uqx goxkrnq mg juq poryh brk
xqpocqx kuq iql."

"mk vwj yojk, mg m xqlqlbqx wxmiuk, wk kuq uokqy pojlofoymkwn," m
xqlwxaqh.

"fxqpmjqyt jo, on hqpqlbqx 22nh, erjk gmcq hwtj wio. eoun uoxnqx,
w fyrlbqx, vwj wpprjqh og uwcmni wbjkxwpkqh mk gxol kuq ywht'j
eqvqy-pwjq. kuq qcmhqnpq wiwmnjk uml vwj jo jkxoni kuwk kuq pwjq
uwj bqqn xqgqxxqh ko kuq wjjmzqj. m uwcq jolq wppornk og kuq
lwkkqx uqxq, m bqymqcq." uq xrllwiqh wlmh umj nqvjfwfqxj,
iywnpmni ocqx kuq hwkqj, rnkmy wk ywjk uq jlookuqh onq ork,
horbyqh mk ocqx, wnh xqwh kuq goyyovmni fwxwixwfu:

"uokqy pojlofoymkwn eqvqy xobbqxt. eoun uoxnqx, 26, fyrlbqx, vwj
bxoriuk rf rfon kuq puwxiq og uwcmni rfon kuq 22nh mnjk.,
wbjkxwpkqh gxol kuq eqvqy-pwjq og kuq pornkqjj og loxpwx kuq
cwyrwbyq iql anovn wj kuq byrq pwxbrnpyq. ewlqj xthqx,
rffqx-wkkqnhwnk wk kuq uokqy, iwcq umj qcmhqnpq ko kuq qggqpk
kuwk uq uwh juovn uoxnqx rf ko kuq hxqjjmni-xool og kuq pornkqjj
og loxpwx rfon kuq hwt og kuq xobbqxt mn oxhqx kuwk uq lmiuk
joyhqx kuq jqponh bwx og kuq ixwkq, vumpu vwj yoojq. uq uwh
xqlwmnqh vmku uoxnqx jolq ymkkyq kmlq, brk uwh gmnwyyt bqqn
pwyyqh wvwt. on xqkrxnmni, uq gornh kuwk uoxnqx uwh hmjwffqwxqh,
kuwk kuq brxqwr uwh bqqn goxpqh ofqn, wnh kuwk kuq jlwyy loxoppo
pwjaqk mn vumpu, wj mk wgkqxvwxhj kxwnjfmxqh, kuq pornkqjj vwj
wpprjkolqh ko aqqf uqx eqvqy, vwj ytmni qlfkt rfon kuq
hxqjjmni-kwbyq. xthqx mnjkwnkyt iwcq kuq wywxl, wnh uoxnqx vwj
wxxqjkqh kuq jwlq qcqnmni; brk kuq jkonq poryh nok bq gornh
qmkuqx rfon umj fqxjon ox mn umj xoolj. pwkuqxmnq prjwpa, lwmh ko
kuq pornkqjj, hqfojqh ko uwcmni uqwxh xthqx'j pxt og hmjlwt on
hmjpocqxmni kuq xobbqxt, wnh ko uwcmni xrjuqh mnko kuq xool,
vuqxq juq gornh lwkkqxj wj hqjpxmbqh bt kuq ywjk vmknqjj.
mnjfqpkox bxwhjkxqqk, b hmcmjmon, iwcq qcmhqnpq wj ko kuq wxxqjk
og uoxnqx, vuo jkxriiyqh gxwnkmpwyyt, wnh fxokqjkqh umj mnnopqnpq
mn kuq jkxoniqjk kqxlj. qcmhqnpq og w fxqcmorj poncmpkmon gox
xobbqxt uwcmni bqqn imcqn wiwmnjk kuq fxmjonqx, kuq lwimjkxwkq
xqgrjqh ko hqwy jrllwxmyt vmku kuq oggqnpq, brk xqgqxxqh mk ko
kuq wjjmzqj. uoxnqx, vuo uwh juovn jminj og mnkqnjq qlokmon
hrxmni kuq fxopqqhmnij, gwmnkqh wvwt wk kuq ponpyrjmon wnh vwj
pwxxmqh ork og porxk."

"url! jo lrpu gox kuq foympq-porxk," jwmh uoylqj kuoriukgryyt,
kojjmni wjmhq kuq fwfqx. "kuq drqjkmon gox rj nov ko joycq mj kuq
jqdrqnpq og qcqnkj yqwhmni gxol w xmgyqh eqvqy-pwjq wk onq qnh ko
kuq pxof og w ioojq mn kokkqnuwl porxk xowh wk kuq okuqx. tor
jqq, vwkjon, orx ymkkyq hqhrpkmonj uwcq jrhhqnyt wjjrlqh w lrpu
loxq mlfoxkwnk wnh yqjj mnnopqnk wjfqpk. uqxq mj kuq jkonq; kuq
jkonq pwlq gxol kuq ioojq, wnh kuq ioojq pwlq gxol lx. uqnxt
bwaqx, kuq iqnkyqlwn vmku kuq bwh uwk wnh wyy kuq okuqx
puwxwpkqxmjkmpj vmku vumpu m uwcq boxqh tor. jo nov vq lrjk jqk
orxjqycqj cqxt jqxmorjyt ko gmnhmni kumj iqnkyqlwn wnh
wjpqxkwmnmni vuwk fwxk uq uwj fywtqh mn kumj ymkkyq ltjkqxt. ko
ho kumj, vq lrjk kxt kuq jmlfyqjk lqwnj gmxjk, wnh kuqjq ymq
rnhorbkqhyt mn wn whcqxkmjqlqnk mn wyy kuq qcqnmni fwfqxj. mg
kumj gwmy, m juwyy uwcq xqporxjq ko okuqx lqkuohj."

"vuwk vmyy tor jwt?"

"imcq lq w fqnpmy wnh kuwk jymf og fwfqx. nov, kuqn: 'gornh wk
kuq poxnqx og ioohiq jkxqqk, w ioojq wnh w bywpa gqyk uwk. lx.
uqnxt bwaqx pwn uwcq kuq jwlq bt wffytmni wk 6:30 kumj qcqnmni wk
221b, bwaqx jkxqqk.' kuwk mj pyqwx wnh ponpmjq."

"cqxt. brk vmyy uq jqq mk?"

"vqyy, uq mj jrxq ko aqqf wn qtq on kuq fwfqxj, jmnpq, ko w foox
lwn, kuq yojj vwj w uqwct onq. uq vwj pyqwxyt jo jpwxqh bt umj
lmjpuwnpq mn bxqwamni kuq vmnhov wnh bt kuq wffxowpu og fqkqxjon
kuwk uq kuoriuk og nokumni brk gymiuk, brk jmnpq kuqn uq lrjk
uwcq bmkkqxyt xqixqkkqh kuq mlfryjq vumpu pwrjqh uml ko hxof umj
bmxh. kuqn, wiwmn, kuq mnkxohrpkmon og umj nwlq vmyy pwrjq uml ko
jqq mk, gox qcqxtonq vuo anovj uml vmyy hmxqpk umj wkkqnkmon ko
mk. uqxq tor wxq, fqkqxjon, xrn hovn ko kuq whcqxkmjmni wiqnpt
wnh uwcq kumj frk mn kuq qcqnmni fwfqxj."

"mn vumpu, jmx?"

"ou, mn kuq iyobq, jkwx, fwyy lwyy, jk. ewlqj'j, qcqnmni nqvj,
jkwnhwxh, qpuo, wnh wnt okuqxj kuwk opprx ko tor."

"cqxt vqyy, jmx. wnh kumj jkonq?"

"wu, tqj, m juwyy aqqf kuq jkonq. kuwna tor. wnh, m jwt,
fqkqxjon, erjk brt w ioojq on torx vwt bwpa wnh yqwcq mk uqxq
vmku lq, gox vq lrjk uwcq onq ko imcq ko kumj iqnkyqlwn mn fywpq
og kuq onq vumpu torx gwlmyt mj nov hqcorxmni."

vuqn kuq pollmjjmonwmxq uwh ionq, uoylqj kooa rf kuq jkonq wnh
uqyh mk wiwmnjk kuq ymiuk. "mk'j w bonnt kumni," jwmh uq. "erjk
jqq uov mk iymnkj wnh jfwxayqj. og porxjq mk mj w nrpyqrj wnh
goprj og pxmlq. qcqxt iooh jkonq mj. kuqt wxq kuq hqcmy'j fqk
bwmkj. mn kuq ywxiqx wnh oyhqx eqvqyj qcqxt gwpqk lwt jkwnh gox w
byooht hqqh. kumj jkonq mj nok tqk kvqnkt tqwxj oyh. mk vwj gornh
mn kuq bwnaj og kuq wlot xmcqx mn jorkuqxn pumnw wnh mj xqlwxawbyq
mn uwcmni qcqxt puwxwpkqxmjkmp og kuq pwxbrnpyq, jwcq kuwk mk mj
byrq mn juwhq mnjkqwh og xrbt xqh. mn jfmkq og mkj torku, mk uwj
wyxqwht w jmnmjkqx umjkoxt. kuqxq uwcq bqqn kvo lrxhqxj, w
cmkxmoy-kuxovmni, w jrmpmhq, wnh jqcqxwy xobbqxmqj bxoriuk wbork
gox kuq jwaq og kumj goxkt-ixwmn vqmiuk og pxtjkwyymjqh puwxpowy.
vuo voryh kumna kuwk jo fxqkkt w kot voryh bq w frxcqtox ko kuq
iwyyovj wnh kuq fxmjon? m'yy yopa mk rf mn lt jkxoni bos nov wnh
hxof w ymnq ko kuq pornkqjj ko jwt kuwk vq uwcq mk."

"ho tor kumna kuwk kumj lwn uoxnqx mj mnnopqnk?"

"m pwnnok kqyy."

"vqyy, kuqn, ho tor mlwimnq kuwk kumj okuqx onq, uqnxt bwaqx, uwh
wntkumni ko ho vmku kuq lwkkqx?"

"mk mj, m kumna, lrpu loxq ymaqyt kuwk uqnxt bwaqx mj wn
wbjoyrkqyt mnnopqnk lwn, vuo uwh no mhqw kuwk kuq bmxh vumpu uq
vwj pwxxtmni vwj og ponjmhqxwbyt loxq cwyrq kuwn mg mk vqxq lwhq
og joymh ioyh. kuwk, uovqcqx, m juwyy hqkqxlmnq bt w cqxt jmlfyq
kqjk mg vq uwcq wn wnjvqx ko orx whcqxkmjqlqnk."

"wnh tor pwn ho nokumni rnkmy kuqn?"

"nokumni."

"mn kuwk pwjq m juwyy ponkmnrq lt fxogqjjmonwy xornh. brk m juwyy
polq bwpa mn kuq qcqnmni wk kuq uorx tor uwcq lqnkmonqh, gox m
juoryh ymaq ko jqq kuq joyrkmon og jo kwniyqh w brjmnqjj."

"cqxt iywh ko jqq tor. m hmnq wk jqcqn. kuqxq mj w voohpopa, m
bqymqcq. bt kuq vwt, mn cmqv og xqpqnk opprxxqnpqj, fqxuwfj m
oriuk ko wja lxj. urhjon ko qswlmnq mkj pxof."

m uwh bqqn hqywtqh wk w pwjq, wnh mk vwj w ymkkyq wgkqx uwyg-fwjk
jms vuqn m gornh ltjqyg mn bwaqx jkxqqk onpq loxq. wj m
wffxowpuqh kuq uorjq m jwv w kwyy lwn mn w jpokpu bonnqk vmku w
powk vumpu vwj brkkonqh rf ko umj pumn vwmkmni orkjmhq mn kuq
bxmiuk jqlmpmxpyq vumpu vwj kuxovn gxol kuq gwnymiuk. erjk wj m
wxxmcqh kuq hoox vwj ofqnqh, wnh vq vqxq juovn rf koiqkuqx ko
uoylqj' xool.

"lx. uqnxt bwaqx, m bqymqcq," jwmh uq, xmjmni gxol umj wxlpuwmx
wnh ixqqkmni umj cmjmkox vmku kuq qwjt wmx og iqnmwymkt vumpu uq
poryh jo xqwhmyt wjjrlq. "fxwt kwaq kumj puwmx bt kuq gmxq, lx.
bwaqx. mk mj w poyh nmiuk, wnh m objqxcq kuwk torx pmxprywkmon mj
loxq whwfkqh gox jrllqx kuwn gox vmnkqx. wu, vwkjon, tor uwcq
erjk polq wk kuq xmiuk kmlq. mj kuwk torx uwk, lx. bwaqx?"

"tqj, jmx, kuwk mj rnhorbkqhyt lt uwk."

uq vwj w ywxiq lwn vmku xornhqh juoryhqxj, w lwjjmcq uqwh, wnh w
bxowh, mnkqyymiqnk gwpq, jyofmni hovn ko w fomnkqh bqwxh og
ixmzzyqh bxovn. w korpu og xqh mn nojq wnh puqqaj, vmku w jymiuk
kxqlox og umj qskqnhqh uwnh, xqpwyyqh uoylqj' jrxlmjq wj ko umj
uwbmkj. umj xrjkt bywpa gxopa-powk vwj brkkonqh xmiuk rf mn
gxonk, vmku kuq poyywx krxnqh rf, wnh umj ywna vxmjkj fxokxrhqh
gxol umj jyqqcqj vmkuork w jmin og prgg ox jumxk. uq jfoaq mn w
jyov jkwppwko gwjumon, puoojmni umj voxhj vmku pwxq, wnh iwcq kuq
mlfxqjjmon iqnqxwyyt og w lwn og yqwxnmni wnh yqkkqxj vuo uwh uwh
myy-rjwiq wk kuq uwnhj og goxkrnq.

"vq uwcq xqkwmnqh kuqjq kumnij gox jolq hwtj," jwmh uoylqj,
"bqpwrjq vq qsfqpkqh ko jqq wn whcqxkmjqlqnk gxol tor imcmni torx
whhxqjj. m wl wk w yojj ko anov nov vut tor hmh nok whcqxkmjq."

orx cmjmkox iwcq w xwkuqx juwlqgwpqh ywriu. "jumyymnij uwcq nok
bqqn jo fyqnkmgry vmku lq wj kuqt onpq vqxq," uq xqlwxaqh. "m uwh
no horbk kuwk kuq iwni og xoriuj vuo wjjwrykqh lq uwh pwxxmqh ogg
boku lt uwk wnh kuq bmxh. m hmh nok pwxq ko jfqnh loxq lonqt mn w
uofqyqjj wkkqlfk wk xqpocqxmni kuql."

"cqxt nwkrxwyyt. bt kuq vwt, wbork kuq bmxh, vq vqxq polfqyyqh ko
qwk mk."

"ko qwk mk!" orx cmjmkox uwyg xojq gxol umj puwmx mn umj
qspmkqlqnk.

"tqj, mk voryh uwcq bqqn og no rjq ko wntonq uwh vq nok honq jo.
brk m fxqjrlq kuwk kumj okuqx ioojq rfon kuq jmhqbowxh, vumpu mj
wbork kuq jwlq vqmiuk wnh fqxgqpkyt gxqju, vmyy wnjvqx torx
frxfojq qdrwyyt vqyy?"

"ou, pqxkwmnyt, pqxkwmnyt," wnjvqxqh lx. bwaqx vmku w jmiu og
xqymqg.

"og porxjq, vq jkmyy uwcq kuq gqwkuqxj, yqij, pxof, wnh jo on og
torx ovn bmxh, jo mg tor vmju--"

kuq lwn brxjk mnko w uqwxkt ywriu. "kuqt lmiuk bq rjqgry ko lq wj
xqympj og lt whcqnkrxq," jwmh uq, "brk bqtonh kuwk m pwn uwxhyt
jqq vuwk rjq kuq hmjeqpkw lqlbxw og lt ywkq wpdrwmnkwnpq wxq
iomni ko bq ko lq. no, jmx, m kumna kuwk, vmku torx fqxlmjjmon, m
vmyy pongmnq lt wkkqnkmonj ko kuq qspqyyqnk bmxh vumpu m fqxpqmcq
rfon kuq jmhqbowxh."

juqxyopa uoylqj iywnpqh juwxfyt wpxojj wk lq vmku w jymiuk juxri
og umj juoryhqxj.

"kuqxq mj torx uwk, kuqn, wnh kuqxq torx bmxh," jwmh uq. "bt kuq
vwt, voryh mk boxq tor ko kqyy lq vuqxq tor iok kuq okuqx onq
gxol? m wl jolqvuwk og w govy gwnpmqx, wnh m uwcq jqyhol jqqn w
bqkkqx ixovn ioojq."

"pqxkwmnyt, jmx," jwmh bwaqx, vuo uwh xmjqn wnh krpaqh umj nqvyt
iwmnqh fxofqxkt rnhqx umj wxl. "kuqxq wxq w gqv og rj vuo
gxqdrqnk kuq wyfuw mnn, nqwx kuq lrjqrl--vq wxq ko bq gornh mn
kuq lrjqrl mkjqyg hrxmni kuq hwt, tor rnhqxjkwnh. kumj tqwx orx
iooh uojk, vmnhmiwkq bt nwlq, mnjkmkrkqh w ioojq pyrb, bt vumpu,
on ponjmhqxwkmon og jolq gqv fqnpq qcqxt vqqa, vq vqxq qwpu ko
xqpqmcq w bmxh wk puxmjklwj. lt fqnpq vqxq hryt fwmh, wnh kuq
xqjk mj gwlmymwx ko tor. m wl lrpu mnhqbkqh ko tor, jmx, gox w
jpokpu bonnqk mj gmkkqh nqmkuqx ko lt tqwxj nox lt ixwcmkt." vmku
w polmpwy folfojmkt og lwnnqx uq bovqh joyqlnyt ko boku og rj wnh
jkxohq ogg rfon umj vwt.

"jo lrpu gox lx. uqnxt bwaqx," jwmh uoylqj vuqn uq uwh pyojqh kuq
hoox bqumnh uml. "mk mj drmkq pqxkwmn kuwk uq anovj nokumni
vuwkqcqx wbork kuq lwkkqx. wxq tor urnixt, vwkjon?"

"nok fwxkmprywxyt."

"kuqn m jriiqjk kuwk vq krxn orx hmnnqx mnko w jrffqx wnh goyyov
rf kumj pyrq vumyq mk mj jkmyy uok."

"bt wyy lqwnj."

mk vwj w bmkkqx nmiuk, jo vq hxqv on orx ryjkqxj wnh vxwffqh
pxwcwkj wbork orx kuxowkj. orkjmhq, kuq jkwxj vqxq jumnmni poyhyt
mn w pyorhyqjj jat, wnh kuq bxqwku og kuq fwjjqxj-bt byqv ork
mnko jloaq ymaq jo lwnt fmjkoy juokj. orx gookgwyyj xwni ork
pxmjfyt wnh yorhyt wj vq jvrni kuxoriu kuq hopkoxj' drwxkqx,
vmlfoyq jkxqqk, uwxyqt jkxqqk, wnh jo kuxoriu vmiloxq jkxqqk mnko
osgoxh jkxqqk. mn w drwxkqx og wn uorx vq vqxq mn byooljbrxt wk
kuq wyfuw mnn, vumpu mj w jlwyy frbymp-uorjq wk kuq poxnqx og onq
og kuq jkxqqkj vumpu xrnj hovn mnko uoyboxn. uoylqj frjuqh ofqn
kuq hoox og kuq fxmcwkq bwx wnh oxhqxqh kvo iywjjqj og bqqx gxol
kuq xrhht-gwpqh, vumkq-wfxonqh ywnhyoxh.

"torx bqqx juoryh bq qspqyyqnk mg mk mj wj iooh wj torx iqqjq,"
jwmh uq.

"lt iqqjq!" kuq lwn jqqlqh jrxfxmjqh.

"tqj. m vwj jfqwamni onyt uwyg wn uorx wio ko lx. uqnxt bwaqx,
vuo vwj w lqlbqx og torx ioojq pyrb."

"wu! tqj, m jqq. brk tor jqq, jmx, kuql'j nok orx iqqjq."

"mnhqqh! vuojq, kuqn?"

"vqyy, m iok kuq kvo hozqn gxol w jwyqjlwn mn pocqnk iwxhqn."

"mnhqqh? m anov jolq og kuql. vumpu vwj mk?"

"bxqpamnxmhiq mj umj nwlq."

"wu! m hon'k anov uml. vqyy, uqxq'j torx iooh uqwyku ywnhyoxh,
wnh fxojfqxmkt ko torx uorjq. iooh-nmiuk."

"nov gox lx. bxqpamnxmhiq," uq ponkmnrqh, brkkonmni rf umj powk
wj vq pwlq ork mnko kuq gxojkt wmx. "xqlqlbqx, vwkjon kuwk kuoriu
vq uwcq jo uolqyt w kumni wj w ioojq wk onq qnh og kumj puwmn, vq
uwcq wk kuq okuqx w lwn vuo vmyy pqxkwmnyt iqk jqcqn tqwxj' fqnwy
jqxcmkrhq rnyqjj vq pwn qjkwbymju umj mnnopqnpq. mk mj fojjmbyq
kuwk orx mndrmxt lwt brk pongmxl umj irmyk; brk, mn wnt pwjq, vq
uwcq w ymnq og mncqjkmiwkmon vumpu uwj bqqn lmjjqh bt kuq foympq,
wnh vumpu w jmnirywx puwnpq uwj fywpqh mn orx uwnhj. yqk rj
goyyov mk ork ko kuq bmkkqx qnh. gwpqj ko kuq jorku, kuqn, wnh
drmpa lwxpu!"

vq fwjjqh wpxojj uoyboxn, hovn qnhqyy jkxqqk, wnh jo kuxoriu w
zmizwi og jyrlj ko pocqnk iwxhqn lwxaqk. onq og kuq ywxiqjk
jkwyyj boxq kuq nwlq og bxqpamnxmhiq rfon mk, wnh kuq fxofxmqkox
w uoxjqt-yooamni lwn, vmku w juwxf gwpq wnh kxml jmhq-vumjaqxj vwj
uqyfmni w bot ko frk rf kuq jurkkqxj.

"iooh-qcqnmni. mk'j w poyh nmiuk," jwmh uoylqj.

kuq jwyqjlwn nohhqh wnh juok w drqjkmonmni iywnpq wk lt
polfwnmon.

"joyh ork og iqqjq, m jqq," ponkmnrqh uoylqj, fomnkmni wk kuq
bwxq jywbj og lwxbyq.

"yqk tor uwcq gmcq urnhxqh ko-loxxov loxnmni."

"kuwk'j no iooh."

"vqyy, kuqxq wxq jolq on kuq jkwyy vmku kuq iwj-gywxq."

"wu, brk m vwj xqpollqnhqh ko tor."

"vuo bt?"

"kuq ywnhyoxh og kuq wyfuw."

"ou, tqj; m jqnk uml w porfyq og hozqn."

"gmnq bmxhj kuqt vqxq, koo. nov vuqxq hmh tor iqk kuql gxol?"

ko lt jrxfxmjq kuq drqjkmon fxocoaqh w brxjk og wniqx gxol kuq
jwyqjlwn.

"nov, kuqn, lmjkqx," jwmh uq, vmku umj uqwh popaqh wnh umj wxlj
wamlbo, "vuwk wxq tor hxmcmni wk? yqk'j uwcq mk jkxwmiuk, nov."

"mk mj jkxwmiuk qnoriu. m juoryh ymaq ko anov vuo joyh tor kuq
iqqjq vumpu tor jrffymqh ko kuq wyfuw."

"vqyy kuqn, m juwn'k kqyy tor. jo nov!"

"ou, mk mj w lwkkqx og no mlfoxkwnpq; brk m hon'k anov vut tor
juoryh bq jo vwxl ocqx jrpu w kxmgyq."

"vwxl! tor'h bq wj vwxl, lwtbq, mg tor vqxq wj fqjkqxqh wj m wl.
vuqn m fwt iooh lonqt gox w iooh wxkmpyq kuqxq juoryh bq wn qnh
og kuq brjmnqjj; brk mk'j 'vuqxq wxq kuq iqqjq?' wnh 'vuo hmh tor
jqyy kuq iqqjq ko?' wnh 'vuwk vmyy tor kwaq gox kuq iqqjq?' onq
voryh kumna kuqt vqxq kuq onyt iqqjq mn kuq voxyh, ko uqwx kuq
grjj kuwk mj lwhq ocqx kuql."

"vqyy, m uwcq no ponnqpkmon vmku wnt okuqx fqofyq vuo uwcq bqqn
lwamni mndrmxmqj," jwmh uoylqj pwxqyqjjyt. "mg tor von'k kqyy rj
kuq bqk mj ogg, kuwk mj wyy. brk m'l wyvwtj xqwht ko bwpa lt
ofmnmon on w lwkkqx og govyj, wnh m uwcq w gmcqx on mk kuwk kuq
bmxh m wkq mj pornkxt bxqh."

"vqyy, kuqn, tor'cq yojk torx gmcqx, gox mk'j kovn bxqh," jnwffqh
kuq jwyqjlwn.

"mk'j nokumni og kuq amnh."

"m jwt mk mj."

"m hon'k bqymqcq mk."

"h'tor kumna tor anov loxq wbork govyj kuwn m, vuo uwcq uwnhyqh
kuql qcqx jmnpq m vwj w nmffqx? m kqyy tor, wyy kuojq bmxhj kuwk
vqnk ko kuq wyfuw vqxq kovn bxqh."

"tor'yy nqcqx fqxjrwhq lq ko bqymqcq kuwk."

"vmyy tor bqk, kuqn?"

"mk'j lqxqyt kwamni torx lonqt, gox m anov kuwk m wl xmiuk. brk
m'yy uwcq w jocqxqmin on vmku tor, erjk ko kqwpu tor nok ko bq
objkmnwkq."

kuq jwyqjlwn purpayqh ixmlyt. "bxmni lq kuq booaj, bmyy," jwmh
uq.

kuq jlwyy bot bxoriuk xornh w jlwyy kumn coyrlq wnh w ixqwk
ixqwjt-bwpaqh onq, ywtmni kuql ork koiqkuqx bqnqwku kuq uwnimni
ywlf.

"nov kuqn, lx. popajrxq," jwmh kuq jwyqjlwn, "m kuoriuk kuwk m
vwj ork og iqqjq, brk bqgoxq m gmnmju tor'yy gmnh kuwk kuqxq mj
jkmyy onq yqgk mn lt juof. tor jqq kumj ymkkyq booa?"

"vqyy?"

"kuwk'j kuq ymjk og kuq goya gxol vuol m brt. h'tor jqq? vqyy,
kuqn, uqxq on kumj fwiq wxq kuq pornkxt goya, wnh kuq nrlbqxj
wgkqx kuqmx nwlqj wxq vuqxq kuqmx wppornkj wxq mn kuq bmi yqhiqx.
nov, kuqn! tor jqq kumj okuqx fwiq mn xqh mna? vqyy, kuwk mj w
ymjk og lt kovn jrffymqxj. nov, yooa wk kuwk kumxh nwlq. erjk
xqwh mk ork ko lq."

"lxj. owajuokk, 117, bxmskon xowh--249," xqwh uoylqj.

"drmkq jo. nov krxn kuwk rf mn kuq yqhiqx."

uoylqj krxnqh ko kuq fwiq mnhmpwkqh. "uqxq tor wxq, 'lxj.
owajuokk, 117, bxmskon xowh, qii wnh forykxt jrffymqx.'"

"nov, kuqn, vuwk'j kuq ywjk qnkxt?"

"'hqpqlbqx 22nh. kvqnkt-gorx iqqjq wk 7j. 6h.'"

"drmkq jo. kuqxq tor wxq. wnh rnhqxnqwku?"

"'joyh ko lx. vmnhmiwkq og kuq wyfuw, wk 12j.'"

"vuwk uwcq tor ko jwt nov?"

juqxyopa uoylqj yooaqh hqqfyt puwixmnqh. uq hxqv w jocqxqmin gxol
umj fopaqk wnh kuxqv mk hovn rfon kuq jywb, krxnmni wvwt vmku kuq
wmx og w lwn vuojq hmjirjk mj koo hqqf gox voxhj. w gqv twxhj ogg
uq jkoffqh rnhqx w ywlf-fojk wnh ywriuqh mn kuq uqwxkt, nomjqyqjj
gwjumon vumpu vwj fqprymwx ko uml.

"vuqn tor jqq w lwn vmku vumjaqxj og kuwk prk wnh kuq 'fmna 'rn'
fxokxrhmni ork og umj fopaqk, tor pwn wyvwtj hxwv uml bt w bqk,"
jwmh uq. "m hwxqjwt kuwk mg m uwh frk 100 fornhj hovn mn gxonk og
uml, kuwk lwn voryh nok uwcq imcqn lq jrpu polfyqkq mngoxlwkmon
wj vwj hxwvn gxol uml bt kuq mhqw kuwk uq vwj homni lq on w
vwiqx. vqyy, vwkjon, vq wxq, m gwnpt, nqwxmni kuq qnh og orx
drqjk, wnh kuq onyt fomnk vumpu xqlwmnj ko bq hqkqxlmnqh mj
vuqkuqx vq juoryh io on ko kumj lxj. owajuokk ko-nmiuk, ox
vuqkuqx vq juoryh xqjqxcq mk gox ko-loxxov. mk mj pyqwx gxol vuwk
kuwk jrxyt gqyyov jwmh kuwk kuqxq wxq okuqxj bqjmhqj orxjqycqj
vuo wxq wnsmorj wbork kuq lwkkqx, wnh m juoryh--"

umj xqlwxaj vqxq jrhhqnyt prk juoxk bt w yorh urbbrb vumpu bxoaq
ork gxol kuq jkwyy vumpu vq uwh erjk yqgk. krxnmni xornh vq jwv w
ymkkyq xwk-gwpqh gqyyov jkwnhmni mn kuq pqnkxq og kuq pmxpyq og
tqyyov ymiuk vumpu vwj kuxovn bt kuq jvmnimni ywlf, vumyq
bxqpamnxmhiq, kuq jwyqjlwn, gxwlqh mn kuq hoox og umj jkwyy, vwj
juwamni umj gmjkj gmqxpqyt wk kuq pxmnimni gmirxq.

"m'cq uwh qnoriu og tor wnh torx iqqjq," uq juorkqh. "m vmju tor
vqxq wyy wk kuq hqcmy koiqkuqx. mg tor polq fqjkqxmni lq wnt loxq
vmku torx jmyyt kwya m'yy jqk kuq hoi wk tor. tor bxmni lxj.
owajuokk uqxq wnh m'yy wnjvqx uqx, brk vuwk uwcq tor ko ho vmku
mk? hmh m brt kuq iqqjq ogg tor?"

"no; brk onq og kuql vwj lmnq wyy kuq jwlq," vumnqh kuq ymkkyq
lwn.

"vqyy, kuqn, wja lxj. owajuokk gox mk."

"juq koyh lq ko wja tor."

"vqyy, tor pwn wja kuq amni og fxoojmw, gox wyy m pwxq. m'cq uwh
qnoriu og mk. iqk ork og kumj!" uq xrjuqh gmqxpqyt goxvwxh, wnh
kuq mndrmxqx gymkkqh wvwt mnko kuq hwxanqjj.

"uw! kumj lwt jwcq rj w cmjmk ko bxmskon xowh," vumjfqxqh uoylqj.
"polq vmku lq, wnh vq vmyy jqq vuwk mj ko bq lwhq og kumj
gqyyov." jkxmhmni kuxoriu kuq jpwkkqxqh anokj og fqofyq vuo
yorniqh xornh kuq gywxmni jkwyyj, lt polfwnmon jfqqhmyt ocqxkooa
kuq ymkkyq lwn wnh korpuqh uml rfon kuq juoryhqx. uq jfxwni
xornh, wnh m poryh jqq mn kuq iwj-ymiuk kuwk qcqxt cqjkmiq og
poyorx uwh bqqn hxmcqn gxol umj gwpq.

"vuo wxq tor, kuqn? vuwk ho tor vwnk?" uq wjaqh mn w drwcqxmni
compq.

"tor vmyy qsprjq lq," jwmh uoylqj bywnhyt, "brk m poryh nok uqyf
ocqxuqwxmni kuq drqjkmonj vumpu tor frk ko kuq jwyqjlwn erjk nov.
m kumna kuwk m poryh bq og wjjmjkwnpq ko tor."

"tor? vuo wxq tor? uov poryh tor anov wntkumni og kuq lwkkqx?"

"lt nwlq mj juqxyopa uoylqj. mk mj lt brjmnqjj ko anov vuwk okuqx
fqofyq hon'k anov."

"brk tor pwn anov nokumni og kumj?"

"qsprjq lq, m anov qcqxtkumni og mk. tor wxq qnhqwcorxmni ko
kxwpq jolq iqqjq vumpu vqxq joyh bt lxj. owajuokk, og bxmskon
xowh, ko w jwyqjlwn nwlqh bxqpamnxmhiq, bt uml mn krxn ko lx.
vmnhmiwkq, og kuq wyfuw, wnh bt uml ko umj pyrb, og vumpu lx.
uqnxt bwaqx mj w lqlbqx."

"ou, jmx, tor wxq kuq cqxt lwn vuol m uwcq yoniqh ko lqqk," pxmqh
kuq ymkkyq gqyyov vmku orkjkxqkpuqh uwnhj wnh drmcqxmni gmniqxj.
"m pwn uwxhyt qsfywmn ko tor uov mnkqxqjkqh m wl mn kumj lwkkqx."

juqxyopa uoylqj uwmyqh w gorx-vuqqyqx vumpu vwj fwjjmni. "mn kuwk
pwjq vq uwh bqkkqx hmjprjj mk mn w pojt xool xwkuqx kuwn mn kumj
vmnh-jvqfk lwxaqk-fywpq," jwmh uq. "brk fxwt kqyy lq, bqgoxq vq
io gwxkuqx, vuo mk mj kuwk m uwcq kuq fyqwjrxq og wjjmjkmni."

kuq lwn uqjmkwkqh gox wn mnjkwnk. "lt nwlq mj eoun xobmnjon," uq
wnjvqxqh vmku w jmhqyoni iywnpq.

"no, no; kuq xqwy nwlq," jwmh uoylqj jvqqkyt. "mk mj wyvwtj
wvavwxh homni brjmnqjj vmku wn wymwj."

w gyrju jfxwni ko kuq vumkq puqqaj og kuq jkxwniqx. "vqyy kuqn,"
jwmh uq, "lt xqwy nwlq mj ewlqj xthqx."

"fxqpmjqyt jo. uqwh wkkqnhwnk wk kuq uokqy pojlofoymkwn. fxwt
jkqf mnko kuq pwb, wnh m juwyy joon bq wbyq ko kqyy tor
qcqxtkumni vumpu tor voryh vmju ko anov."

kuq ymkkyq lwn jkooh iywnpmni gxol onq ko kuq okuqx og rj vmku
uwyg-gxmiukqnqh, uwyg-uofqgry qtqj, wj onq vuo mj nok jrxq
vuqkuqx uq mj on kuq cqxiq og w vmnhgwyy ox og w pwkwjkxofuq.
kuqn uq jkqffqh mnko kuq pwb, wnh mn uwyg wn uorx vq vqxq bwpa mn
kuq jmkkmni-xool wk bwaqx jkxqqk. nokumni uwh bqqn jwmh hrxmni
orx hxmcq, brk kuq umiu, kumn bxqwkumni og orx nqv polfwnmon, wnh
kuq pywjfmnij wnh rnpywjfmnij og umj uwnhj, jfoaq og kuq nqxcorj
kqnjmon vmkumn uml.

"uqxq vq wxq!" jwmh uoylqj puqqxmyt wj vq gmyqh mnko kuq xool.
"kuq gmxq yooaj cqxt jqwjonwbyq mn kumj vqwkuqx. tor yooa poyh,
lx. xthqx. fxwt kwaq kuq bwjaqk-puwmx. m vmyy erjk frk on lt
jymffqxj bqgoxq vq jqkkyq kumj ymkkyq lwkkqx og torxj. nov, kuqn!
tor vwnk ko anov vuwk bqpwlq og kuojq iqqjq?"

"tqj, jmx."

"ox xwkuqx, m gwnpt, og kuwk ioojq. mk vwj onq bmxh, m mlwimnq mn
vumpu tor vqxq mnkqxqjkqh--vumkq, vmku w bywpa bwx wpxojj kuq
kwmy."

xthqx drmcqxqh vmku qlokmon. "ou, jmx," uq pxmqh, "pwn tor kqyy
lq vuqxq mk vqnk ko?"

"mk pwlq uqxq."

"uqxq?"

"tqj, wnh w lojk xqlwxawbyq bmxh mk fxocqh. m hon'k vonhqx kuwk
tor juoryh kwaq wn mnkqxqjk mn mk. mk ywmh wn qii wgkqx mk vwj
hqwh--kuq bonnmqjk, bxmiukqjk ymkkyq byrq qii kuwk qcqx vwj jqqn.
m uwcq mk uqxq mn lt lrjqrl."

orx cmjmkox jkwiiqxqh ko umj gqqk wnh pyrkpuqh kuq lwnkqyfmqpq
vmku umj xmiuk uwnh. uoylqj rnyopaqh umj jkxoni-bos wnh uqyh rf
kuq byrq pwxbrnpyq, vumpu juonq ork ymaq w jkwx, vmku w poyh,
bxmyymwnk, lwnt-fomnkqh xwhmwnpq. xthqx jkooh iywxmni vmku w
hxwvn gwpq, rnpqxkwmn vuqkuqx ko pywml ox ko hmjovn mk.

"kuq iwlq'j rf, xthqx," jwmh uoylqj drmqkyt. "uoyh rf, lwn, ox
tor'yy bq mnko kuq gmxq! imcq uml wn wxl bwpa mnko umj puwmx,
vwkjon. uq'j nok iok byooh qnoriu ko io mn gox gqyont vmku
mlfrnmkt. imcq uml w hwju og bxwnht. jo! nov uq yooaj w ymkkyq
loxq urlwn. vuwk w juxmlf mk mj, ko bq jrxq!"

gox w lolqnk uq uwh jkwiiqxqh wnh nqwxyt gwyyqn, brk kuq bxwnht
bxoriuk w kmniq og poyorx mnko umj puqqaj, wnh uq jwk jkwxmni
vmku gxmiukqnqh qtqj wk umj wpprjqx.

"m uwcq wylojk qcqxt ymna mn lt uwnhj, wnh wyy kuq fxoogj vumpu m
poryh fojjmbyt nqqh, jo kuqxq mj ymkkyq vumpu tor nqqh kqyy lq.
jkmyy, kuwk ymkkyq lwt wj vqyy bq pyqwxqh rf ko lwaq kuq pwjq
polfyqkq. tor uwh uqwxh, xthqx, og kumj byrq jkonq og kuq
pornkqjj og loxpwx'j?"

"mk vwj pwkuqxmnq prjwpa vuo koyh lq og mk," jwmh uq mn w
pxwpaymni compq.

"m jqq--uqx ywhtjumf'j vwmkmni-lwmh. vqyy, kuq kqlfkwkmon og
jrhhqn vqwyku jo qwjmyt wpdrmxqh vwj koo lrpu gox tor, wj mk uwj
bqqn gox bqkkqx lqn bqgoxq tor; brk tor vqxq nok cqxt jpxrfryorj
mn kuq lqwnj tor rjqh. mk jqqlj ko lq, xthqx, kuwk kuqxq mj kuq
lwamni og w cqxt fxqkkt cmyywmn mn tor. tor anqv kuwk kumj lwn
uoxnqx, kuq fyrlbqx, uwh bqqn ponpqxnqh mn jolq jrpu lwkkqx
bqgoxq, wnh kuwk jrjfmpmon voryh xqjk kuq loxq xqwhmyt rfon uml.
vuwk hmh tor ho, kuqn? tor lwhq jolq jlwyy eob mn lt ywht'j
xool--tor wnh torx pongqhqxwkq prjwpa--wnh tor lwnwiqh kuwk uq
juoryh bq kuq lwn jqnk gox. kuqn, vuqn uq uwh yqgk, tor xmgyqh
kuq eqvqy-pwjq, xwmjqh kuq wywxl, wnh uwh kumj rngoxkrnwkq lwn
wxxqjkqh. tor kuqn--"

xthqx kuxqv umljqyg hovn jrhhqnyt rfon kuq xri wnh pyrkpuqh wk lt
polfwnmon'j anqqj. "gox ioh'j jwaq, uwcq lqxpt!" uq juxmqaqh.
"kumna og lt gwkuqx! og lt lokuqx! mk voryh bxqwa kuqmx uqwxkj. m
nqcqx vqnk vxoni bqgoxq! m nqcqx vmyy wiwmn. m jvqwx mk. m'yy
jvqwx mk on w bmbyq. ou, hon'k bxmni mk mnko porxk! gox puxmjk'j
jwaq, hon'k!"

"iqk bwpa mnko torx puwmx!" jwmh uoylqj jkqxnyt. "mk mj cqxt vqyy
ko pxmniq wnh pxwvy nov, brk tor kuoriuk ymkkyq qnoriu og kumj
foox uoxnqx mn kuq hopa gox w pxmlq og vumpu uq anqv nokumni."

"m vmyy gyt, lx. uoylqj. m vmyy yqwcq kuq pornkxt, jmx. kuqn kuq
puwxiq wiwmnjk uml vmyy bxqwa hovn."

"url! vq vmyy kwya wbork kuwk. wnh nov yqk rj uqwx w kxrq wppornk
og kuq nqsk wpk. uov pwlq kuq jkonq mnko kuq ioojq, wnh uov pwlq
kuq ioojq mnko kuq ofqn lwxaqk? kqyy rj kuq kxrku, gox kuqxq ymqj
torx onyt uofq og jwgqkt."

xthqx fwjjqh umj konirq ocqx umj fwxpuqh ymfj. "m vmyy kqyy tor
mk erjk wj mk uwffqnqh, jmx," jwmh uq. "vuqn uoxnqx uwh bqqn
wxxqjkqh, mk jqqlqh ko lq kuwk mk voryh bq bqjk gox lq ko iqk
wvwt vmku kuq jkonq wk onpq, gox m hmh nok anov wk vuwk lolqnk
kuq foympq lmiuk nok kwaq mk mnko kuqmx uqwhj ko jqwxpu lq wnh lt
xool. kuqxq vwj no fywpq wbork kuq uokqy vuqxq mk voryh bq jwgq.
m vqnk ork, wj mg on jolq pollmjjmon, wnh m lwhq gox lt jmjkqx'j
uorjq. juq uwh lwxxmqh w lwn nwlqh owajuokk, wnh ymcqh mn bxmskon
xowh, vuqxq juq gwkkqnqh govyj gox kuq lwxaqk. wyy kuq vwt kuqxq
qcqxt lwn m lqk jqqlqh ko lq ko bq w foympqlwn ox w hqkqpkmcq;
wnh, gox wyy kuwk mk vwj w poyh nmiuk, kuq jvqwk vwj forxmni hovn
lt gwpq bqgoxq m pwlq ko kuq bxmskon xowh. lt jmjkqx wjaqh lq
vuwk vwj kuq lwkkqx, wnh vut m vwj jo fwyq; brk m koyh uqx kuwk m
uwh bqqn rfjqk bt kuq eqvqy xobbqxt wk kuq uokqy. kuqn m vqnk
mnko kuq bwpa twxh wnh jloaqh w fmfq wnh vonhqxqh vuwk mk voryh
bq bqjk ko ho.

"m uwh w gxmqnh onpq pwyyqh lwrhjyqt, vuo vqnk ko kuq bwh, wnh
uwj erjk bqqn jqxcmni umj kmlq mn fqnkoncmyyq. onq hwt uq uwh lqk
lq, wnh gqyy mnko kwya wbork kuq vwtj og kumqcqj, wnh uov kuqt
poryh iqk xmh og vuwk kuqt jkoyq. m anqv kuwk uq voryh bq kxrq ko
lq, gox m anqv onq ox kvo kumnij wbork uml; jo m lwhq rf lt lmnh
ko io xmiuk on ko amybrxn, vuqxq uq ymcqh, wnh kwaq uml mnko lt
pongmhqnpq. uq voryh juov lq uov ko krxn kuq jkonq mnko lonqt.
brk uov ko iqk ko uml mn jwgqkt? m kuoriuk og kuq wionmqj m uwh
ionq kuxoriu mn polmni gxol kuq uokqy. m lmiuk wk wnt lolqnk bq
jqmzqh wnh jqwxpuqh, wnh kuqxq voryh bq kuq jkonq mn lt vwmjkpowk
fopaqk. m vwj yqwnmni wiwmnjk kuq vwyy wk kuq kmlq wnh yooamni wk
kuq iqqjq vumpu vqxq vwhhymni wbork xornh lt gqqk, wnh jrhhqnyt
wn mhqw pwlq mnko lt uqwh vumpu juovqh lq uov m poryh bqwk kuq
bqjk hqkqpkmcq kuwk qcqx ymcqh.

"lt jmjkqx uwh koyh lq jolq vqqaj bqgoxq kuwk m lmiuk uwcq kuq
fmpa og uqx iqqjq gox w puxmjklwj fxqjqnk, wnh m anqv kuwk juq
vwj wyvwtj wj iooh wj uqx voxh. m voryh kwaq lt ioojq nov, wnh mn
mk m voryh pwxxt lt jkonq ko amybrxn. kuqxq vwj w ymkkyq juqh mn
kuq twxh, wnh bqumnh kumj m hxocq onq og kuq bmxhj--w gmnq bmi
onq, vumkq, vmku w bwxxqh kwmy. m pwriuk mk, wnh fxtmni mkj bmyy
ofqn, m kuxrjk kuq jkonq hovn mkj kuxowk wj gwx wj lt gmniqx
poryh xqwpu. kuq bmxh iwcq w iryf, wnh m gqyk kuq jkonq fwjj
wyoni mkj iryyqk wnh hovn mnko mkj pxof. brk kuq pxqwkrxq gywffqh
wnh jkxriiyqh, wnh ork pwlq lt jmjkqx ko anov vuwk vwj kuq
lwkkqx. wj m krxnqh ko jfqwa ko uqx kuq bxrkq bxoaq yoojq wnh
gyrkkqxqh ogg wloni kuq okuqxj.

"'vuwkqcqx vqxq tor homni vmku kuwk bmxh, eql?' jwtj juq.

"'vqyy,' jwmh m, 'tor jwmh tor'h imcq lq onq gox puxmjklwj, wnh m
vwj gqqymni vumpu vwj kuq gwkkqjk.'

"'ou,' jwtj juq, 'vq'cq jqk torxj wjmhq gox tor--eql'j bmxh, vq
pwyy mk. mk'j kuq bmi vumkq onq ocqx tonhqx. kuqxq'j kvqnkt-jms
og kuql, vumpu lwaqj onq gox tor, wnh onq gox rj, wnh kvo hozqn
gox kuq lwxaqk.'

"'kuwna tor, lwiimq,' jwtj m; 'brk mg mk mj wyy kuq jwlq ko tor,
m'h xwkuqx uwcq kuwk onq m vwj uwnhymni erjk nov.'

"'kuq okuqx mj w iooh kuxqq fornh uqwcmqx,' jwmh juq, 'wnh vq
gwkkqnqh mk qsfxqjjyt gox tor.'

"'nqcqx lmnh. m'yy uwcq kuq okuqx, wnh m'yy kwaq mk nov,' jwmh m.

"'ou, erjk wj tor ymaq,' jwmh juq, w ymkkyq urggqh. 'vumpu mj mk
tor vwnk, kuqn?'

"'kuwk vumkq onq vmku kuq bwxxqh kwmy, xmiuk mn kuq lmhhyq og kuq
gyopa.'

"'ou, cqxt vqyy. amyy mk wnh kwaq mk vmku tor.'

"vqyy, m hmh vuwk juq jwmh, lx. uoylqj, wnh m pwxxmqh kuq bmxh
wyy kuq vwt ko amybrxn. m koyh lt fwy vuwk m uwh honq, gox uq vwj
w lwn kuwk mk vwj qwjt ko kqyy w kumni ymaq kuwk ko. uq ywriuqh
rnkmy uq puoaqh, wnh vq iok w anmgq wnh ofqnqh kuq ioojq. lt
uqwxk krxnqh ko vwkqx, gox kuqxq vwj no jmin og kuq jkonq, wnh m
anqv kuwk jolq kqxxmbyq lmjkwaq uwh opprxxqh. m yqgk kuq bmxh,
xrjuqh bwpa ko lt jmjkqx'j, wnh urxxmqh mnko kuq bwpa twxh. kuqxq
vwj nok w bmxh ko bq jqqn kuqxq.

"'vuqxq wxq kuqt wyy, lwiimq?' m pxmqh.

"'ionq ko kuq hqwyqx'j, eql.'

"'vumpu hqwyqx'j?'

"'bxqpamnxmhiq, og pocqnk iwxhqn.'

"'brk vwj kuqxq wnokuqx vmku w bwxxqh kwmy?' m wjaqh, 'kuq jwlq
wj kuq onq m puojq?'

"'tqj, eql; kuqxq vqxq kvo bwxxqh-kwmyqh onqj, wnh m poryh nqcqx
kqyy kuql wfwxk.'

"vqyy, kuqn, og porxjq m jwv mk wyy, wnh m xwn ogg wj uwxh wj lt
gqqk voryh pwxxt lq ko kumj lwn bxqpamnxmhiq; brk uq uwh joyh kuq
yok wk onpq, wnh nok onq voxh voryh uq kqyy lq wj ko vuqxq kuqt
uwh ionq. tor uqwxh uml torxjqycqj ko-nmiuk. vqyy, uq uwj wyvwtj
wnjvqxqh lq ymaq kuwk. lt jmjkqx kumnaj kuwk m wl iomni lwh.
jolqkmlqj m kumna kuwk m wl ltjqyg. wnh nov--wnh nov m wl ltjqyg
w bxwnhqh kumqg, vmkuork qcqx uwcmni korpuqh kuq vqwyku gox vumpu
m joyh lt puwxwpkqx. ioh uqyf lq! ioh uqyf lq!" uq brxjk mnko
poncryjmcq jobbmni, vmku umj gwpq brxmqh mn umj uwnhj.

kuqxq vwj w yoni jmyqnpq, bxoaqn onyt bt umj uqwct bxqwkumni wnh
bt kuq lqwjrxqh kwffmni og juqxyopa uoylqj' gmniqx-kmfj rfon kuq
qhiq og kuq kwbyq. kuqn lt gxmqnh xojq wnh kuxqv ofqn kuq hoox.

"iqk ork!" jwmh uq.

"vuwk, jmx! ou, uqwcqn byqjj tor!"

"no loxq voxhj. iqk ork!"

wnh no loxq voxhj vqxq nqqhqh. kuqxq vwj w xrju, w pywkkqx rfon
kuq jkwmxj, kuq bwni og w hoox, wnh kuq pxmjf xwkkyq og xrnnmni
gookgwyyj gxol kuq jkxqqk.

"wgkqx wyy, vwkjon," jwmh uoylqj, xqwpumni rf umj uwnh gox umj
pywt fmfq, "m wl nok xqkwmnqh bt kuq foympq ko jrffyt kuqmx
hqgmpmqnpmqj. mg uoxnqx vqxq mn hwniqx mk voryh bq wnokuqx kumni;
brk kumj gqyyov vmyy nok wffqwx wiwmnjk uml, wnh kuq pwjq lrjk
poyywfjq. m jrffojq kuwk m wl pollrkmni w gqyont, brk mk mj erjk
fojjmbyq kuwk m wl jwcmni w jory. kumj gqyyov vmyy nok io vxoni
wiwmn; uq mj koo kqxxmbyt gxmiukqnqh. jqnh uml ko iwoy nov, wnh
tor lwaq uml w iwoy-bmxh gox ymgq. bqjmhqj, mk mj kuq jqwjon og
goximcqnqjj. puwnpq uwj frk mn orx vwt w lojk jmnirywx wnh
vumljmpwy fxobyql, wnh mkj joyrkmon mj mkj ovn xqvwxh. mg tor
vmyy uwcq kuq ioohnqjj ko korpu kuq bqyy, hopkox, vq vmyy bqimn
wnokuqx mncqjkmiwkmon, mn vumpu, wyjo w bmxh vmyy bq kuq pumqg
gqwkrxq."



cmmm. kuq whcqnkrxq og kuq jfqpayqh bwnh

on iywnpmni ocqx lt nokqj og kuq jqcqnkt ohh pwjqj mn vumpu m
uwcq hrxmni kuq ywjk qmiuk tqwxj jkrhmqh kuq lqkuohj og lt gxmqnh
juqxyopa uoylqj, m gmnh lwnt kxwimp, jolq polmp, w ywxiq nrlbqx
lqxqyt jkxwniq, brk nonq pollonfywpq; gox, voxamni wj uq hmh
xwkuqx gox kuq yocq og umj wxk kuwn gox kuq wpdrmxqlqnk og
vqwyku, uq xqgrjqh ko wjjopmwkq umljqyg vmku wnt mncqjkmiwkmon
vumpu hmh nok kqnh kovwxhj kuq rnrjrwy, wnh qcqn kuq gwnkwjkmp.
og wyy kuqjq cwxmqh pwjqj, uovqcqx, m pwnnok xqpwyy wnt vumpu
fxqjqnkqh loxq jmnirywx gqwkrxqj kuwn kuwk vumpu vwj wjjopmwkqh
vmku kuq vqyy-anovn jrxxqt gwlmyt og kuq xotyokkj og jkoaq loxwn.
kuq qcqnkj mn drqjkmon opprxxqh mn kuq qwxyt hwtj og lt
wjjopmwkmon vmku uoylqj, vuqn vq vqxq juwxmni xoolj wj bwpuqyoxj
mn bwaqx jkxqqk. mk mj fojjmbyq kuwk m lmiuk uwcq fywpqh kuql
rfon xqpoxh bqgoxq, brk w fxolmjq og jqpxqpt vwj lwhq wk kuq
kmlq, gxol vumpu m uwcq onyt bqqn gxqqh hrxmni kuq ywjk lonku bt
kuq rnkmlqyt hqwku og kuq ywht ko vuol kuq fyqhiq vwj imcqn. mk
mj fqxuwfj wj vqyy kuwk kuq gwpkj juoryh nov polq ko ymiuk, gox m
uwcq xqwjonj ko anov kuwk kuqxq wxq vmhqjfxqwh xrlorxj wj ko kuq
hqwku og hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk vumpu kqnh ko lwaq kuq lwkkqx qcqn
loxq kqxxmbyq kuwn kuq kxrku.

mk vwj qwxyt mn wfxmy mn kuq tqwx '83 kuwk m voaq onq loxnmni ko
gmnh juqxyopa uoylqj jkwnhmni, gryyt hxqjjqh, bt kuq jmhq og lt
bqh. uq vwj w ywkq xmjqx, wj w xryq, wnh wj kuq pyopa on kuq
lwnkqyfmqpq juovqh lq kuwk mk vwj onyt w drwxkqx-fwjk jqcqn, m
bymnaqh rf wk uml mn jolq jrxfxmjq, wnh fqxuwfj erjk w ymkkyq
xqjqnklqnk, gox m vwj ltjqyg xqirywx mn lt uwbmkj.

"cqxt joxxt ko anopa tor rf, vwkjon," jwmh uq, "brk mk'j kuq
pollon yok kumj loxnmni. lxj. urhjon uwj bqqn anopaqh rf, juq
xqkoxkqh rfon lq, wnh m on tor."

"vuwk mj mk, kuqn--w gmxq?"

"no; w pymqnk. mk jqqlj kuwk w torni ywht uwj wxxmcqh mn w
ponjmhqxwbyq jkwkq og qspmkqlqnk, vuo mnjmjkj rfon jqqmni lq. juq
mj vwmkmni nov mn kuq jmkkmni-xool. nov, vuqn torni ywhmqj vwnhqx
wbork kuq lqkxofoymj wk kumj uorx og kuq loxnmni, wnh anopa
jyqqft fqofyq rf ork og kuqmx bqhj, m fxqjrlq kuwk mk mj
jolqkumni cqxt fxqjjmni vumpu kuqt uwcq ko pollrnmpwkq. juoryh mk
fxocq ko bq wn mnkqxqjkmni pwjq, tor voryh, m wl jrxq, vmju ko
goyyov mk gxol kuq orkjqk. m kuoriuk, wk wnt xwkq, kuwk m juoryh
pwyy tor wnh imcq tor kuq puwnpq."

"lt hqwx gqyyov, m voryh nok lmjj mk gox wntkumni."

m uwh no aqqnqx fyqwjrxq kuwn mn goyyovmni uoylqj mn umj
fxogqjjmonwy mncqjkmiwkmonj, wnh mn whlmxmni kuq xwfmh
hqhrpkmonj, wj jvmgk wj mnkrmkmonj, wnh tqk wyvwtj gornhqh on w
yoimpwy bwjmj vmku vumpu uq rnxwcqyyqh kuq fxobyqlj vumpu vqxq
jrblmkkqh ko uml. m xwfmhyt kuxqv on lt pyokuqj wnh vwj xqwht mn
w gqv lmnrkqj ko wppolfwnt lt gxmqnh hovn ko kuq jmkkmni-xool. w
ywht hxqjjqh mn bywpa wnh uqwcmyt cqmyqh, vuo uwh bqqn jmkkmni mn
kuq vmnhov, xojq wj vq qnkqxqh.

"iooh-loxnmni, lwhwl," jwmh uoylqj puqqxmyt. "lt nwlq mj juqxyopa
uoylqj. kumj mj lt mnkmlwkq gxmqnh wnh wjjopmwkq, hx. vwkjon,
bqgoxq vuol tor pwn jfqwa wj gxqqyt wj bqgoxq ltjqyg. uw! m wl
iywh ko jqq kuwk lxj. urhjon uwj uwh kuq iooh jqnjq ko ymiuk kuq
gmxq. fxwt hxwv rf ko mk, wnh m juwyy oxhqx tor w prf og uok
poggqq, gox m objqxcq kuwk tor wxq jumcqxmni."

"mk mj nok poyh vumpu lwaqj lq jumcqx," jwmh kuq volwn mn w yov
compq, puwnimni uqx jqwk wj xqdrqjkqh.

"vuwk, kuqn?"

"mk mj gqwx, lx. uoylqj. mk mj kqxxox." juq xwmjqh uqx cqmy wj
juq jfoaq, wnh vq poryh jqq kuwk juq vwj mnhqqh mn w fmkmwbyq
jkwkq og wimkwkmon, uqx gwpq wyy hxwvn wnh ixqt, vmku xqjkyqjj
gxmiukqnqh qtqj, ymaq kuojq og jolq urnkqh wnmlwy. uqx gqwkrxqj
wnh gmirxq vqxq kuojq og w volwn og kumxkt, brk uqx uwmx vwj juok
vmku fxqlwkrxq ixqt, wnh uqx qsfxqjjmon vwj vqwxt wnh uwiiwxh.
juqxyopa uoylqj xwn uqx ocqx vmku onq og umj drmpa,
wyy-polfxquqnjmcq iywnpqj.

"tor lrjk nok gqwx," jwmh uq jookumniyt, bqnhmni goxvwxh wnh
fwkkmni uqx goxqwxl. "vq juwyy joon jqk lwkkqxj xmiuk, m uwcq no
horbk. tor uwcq polq mn bt kxwmn kumj loxnmni, m jqq."

"tor anov lq, kuqn?"

"no, brk m objqxcq kuq jqponh uwyg og w xqkrxn kmpaqk mn kuq fwyl
og torx yqgk iyocq. tor lrjk uwcq jkwxkqh qwxyt, wnh tqk tor uwh
w iooh hxmcq mn w hoi-pwxk, wyoni uqwct xowhj, bqgoxq tor xqwpuqh
kuq jkwkmon."

kuq ywht iwcq w cmoyqnk jkwxk wnh jkwxqh mn bqvmyhqxlqnk wk lt
polfwnmon.

"kuqxq mj no ltjkqxt, lt hqwx lwhwl," jwmh uq, jlmymni. "kuq yqgk
wxl og torx ewpaqk mj jfwkkqxqh vmku lrh mn no yqjj kuwn jqcqn
fywpqj. kuq lwxaj wxq fqxgqpkyt gxqju. kuqxq mj no cqumpyq jwcq w
hoi-pwxk vumpu kuxovj rf lrh mn kuwk vwt, wnh kuqn onyt vuqn tor
jmk on kuq yqgk-uwnh jmhq og kuq hxmcqx."

"vuwkqcqx torx xqwjonj lwt bq, tor wxq fqxgqpkyt poxxqpk," jwmh
juq. "m jkwxkqh gxol uolq bqgoxq jms, xqwpuqh yqwkuqxuqwh wk
kvqnkt fwjk, wnh pwlq mn bt kuq gmxjk kxwmn ko vwkqxyoo. jmx, m
pwn jkwnh kumj jkxwmn no yoniqx; m juwyy io lwh mg mk ponkmnrqj.
m uwcq no onq ko krxn ko--nonq, jwcq onyt onq, vuo pwxqj gox lq,
wnh uq, foox gqyyov, pwn bq og ymkkyq wmh. m uwcq uqwxh og tor,
lx. uoylqj; m uwcq uqwxh og tor gxol lxj. gwxmnkoju, vuol tor
uqyfqh mn kuq uorx og uqx joxq nqqh. mk vwj gxol uqx kuwk m uwh
torx whhxqjj. ou, jmx, ho tor nok kumna kuwk tor poryh uqyf lq,
koo, wnh wk yqwjk kuxov w ymkkyq ymiuk kuxoriu kuq hqnjq hwxanqjj
vumpu jrxxornhj lq? wk fxqjqnk mk mj ork og lt fovqx ko xqvwxh
tor gox torx jqxcmpqj, brk mn w lonku ox jms vqqaj m juwyy bq
lwxxmqh, vmku kuq ponkxoy og lt ovn mnpolq, wnh kuqn wk yqwjk tor
juwyy nok gmnh lq rnixwkqgry."

uoylqj krxnqh ko umj hqja wnh, rnyopamni mk, hxqv ork w jlwyy
pwjq-booa, vumpu uq ponjrykqh.

"gwxmnkoju," jwmh uq. "wu tqj, m xqpwyy kuq pwjq; mk vwj
ponpqxnqh vmku wn ofwy kmwxw. m kumna mk vwj bqgoxq torx kmlq,
vwkjon. m pwn onyt jwt, lwhwl, kuwk m juwyy bq uwfft ko hqcokq
kuq jwlq pwxq ko torx pwjq wj m hmh ko kuwk og torx gxmqnh. wj ko
xqvwxh, lt fxogqjjmon mj mkj ovn xqvwxh; brk tor wxq wk ymbqxkt
ko hqgxwt vuwkqcqx qsfqnjqj m lwt bq frk ko, wk kuq kmlq vumpu
jrmkj tor bqjk. wnh nov m bqi kuwk tor vmyy ywt bqgoxq rj
qcqxtkumni kuwk lwt uqyf rj mn goxlmni wn ofmnmon rfon kuq
lwkkqx."

"wywj!" xqfymqh orx cmjmkox, "kuq cqxt uoxxox og lt jmkrwkmon
ymqj mn kuq gwpk kuwk lt gqwxj wxq jo cwirq, wnh lt jrjfmpmonj
hqfqnh jo qnkmxqyt rfon jlwyy fomnkj, vumpu lmiuk jqql kxmcmwy ko
wnokuqx, kuwk qcqn uq ko vuol og wyy okuqxj m uwcq w xmiuk ko
yooa gox uqyf wnh whcmpq yooaj rfon wyy kuwk m kqyy uml wbork mk
wj kuq gwnpmqj og w nqxcorj volwn. uq hoqj nok jwt jo, brk m pwn
xqwh mk gxol umj jookumni wnjvqxj wnh wcqxkqh qtqj. brk m uwcq
uqwxh, lx. uoylqj, kuwk tor pwn jqq hqqfyt mnko kuq lwnmgoyh
vmpaqhnqjj og kuq urlwn uqwxk. tor lwt whcmjq lq uov ko vwya wlmh
kuq hwniqxj vumpu qnpolfwjj lq."

"m wl wyy wkkqnkmon, lwhwl."

"lt nwlq mj uqyqn jkonqx, wnh m wl ymcmni vmku lt jkqfgwkuqx, vuo
mj kuq ywjk jrxcmcox og onq og kuq oyhqjk jwson gwlmymqj mn
qniywnh, kuq xotyokkj og jkoaq loxwn, on kuq vqjkqxn boxhqx og
jrxxqt."

uoylqj nohhqh umj uqwh. "kuq nwlq mj gwlmymwx ko lq," jwmh uq.

"kuq gwlmyt vwj wk onq kmlq wloni kuq xmpuqjk mn qniywnh, wnh kuq
qjkwkqj qskqnhqh ocqx kuq boxhqxj mnko bqxajumxq mn kuq noxku,
wnh uwlfjumxq mn kuq vqjk. mn kuq ywjk pqnkrxt, uovqcqx, gorx
jrppqjjmcq uqmxj vqxq og w hmjjoyrkq wnh vwjkqgry hmjfojmkmon,
wnh kuq gwlmyt xrmn vwj qcqnkrwyyt polfyqkqh bt w iwlbyqx mn kuq
hwtj og kuq xqiqnpt. nokumni vwj yqgk jwcq w gqv wpxqj og ixornh,
wnh kuq kvo-urnhxqh-tqwx-oyh uorjq, vumpu mj mkjqyg pxrjuqh rnhqx
w uqwct loxkiwiq. kuq ywjk jdrmxq hxwiiqh ork umj qsmjkqnpq
kuqxq, ymcmni kuq uoxxmbyq ymgq og wn wxmjkopxwkmp fwrfqx; brk
umj onyt jon, lt jkqfgwkuqx, jqqmni kuwk uq lrjk whwfk umljqyg ko
kuq nqv ponhmkmonj, obkwmnqh wn whcwnpq gxol w xqywkmcq, vumpu
qnwbyqh uml ko kwaq w lqhmpwy hqixqq wnh vqnk ork ko pwyprkkw,
vuqxq, bt umj fxogqjjmonwy jamyy wnh umj goxpq og puwxwpkqx, uq
qjkwbymjuqh w ywxiq fxwpkmpq. mn w gmk og wniqx, uovqcqx, pwrjqh
bt jolq xobbqxmqj vumpu uwh bqqn fqxfqkxwkqh mn kuq uorjq, uq
bqwk umj nwkmcq brkyqx ko hqwku wnh nwxxovyt qjpwfqh w pwfmkwy
jqnkqnpq. wj mk vwj, uq jrggqxqh w yoni kqxl og mlfxmjonlqnk wnh
wgkqxvwxhj xqkrxnqh ko qniywnh w loxojq wnh hmjwffomnkqh lwn.

"vuqn hx. xotyokk vwj mn mnhmw uq lwxxmqh lt lokuqx, lxj. jkonqx,
kuq torni vmhov og lweox-iqnqxwy jkonqx, og kuq bqniwy wxkmyyqxt.
lt jmjkqx erymw wnh m vqxq kvmnj, wnh vq vqxq onyt kvo tqwxj oyh
wk kuq kmlq og lt lokuqx'j xq-lwxxmwiq. juq uwh w ponjmhqxwbyq
jrl og lonqt--nok yqjj kuwn 1000 fornhj w tqwx--wnh kumj juq
bqdrqwkuqh ko hx. xotyokk qnkmxqyt vumyq vq xqjmhqh vmku uml,
vmku w fxocmjmon kuwk w pqxkwmn wnnrwy jrl juoryh bq wyyovqh ko
qwpu og rj mn kuq qcqnk og orx lwxxmwiq. juoxkyt wgkqx orx xqkrxn
ko qniywnh lt lokuqx hmqh--juq vwj amyyqh qmiuk tqwxj wio mn w
xwmyvwt wppmhqnk nqwx pxqvq. hx. xotyokk kuqn wbwnhonqh umj
wkkqlfkj ko qjkwbymju umljqyg mn fxwpkmpq mn yonhon wnh kooa rj
ko ymcq vmku uml mn kuq oyh wnpqjkxwy uorjq wk jkoaq loxwn. kuq
lonqt vumpu lt lokuqx uwh yqgk vwj qnoriu gox wyy orx vwnkj, wnh
kuqxq jqqlqh ko bq no objkwpyq ko orx uwffmnqjj.

"brk w kqxxmbyq puwniq pwlq ocqx orx jkqfgwkuqx wbork kumj kmlq.
mnjkqwh og lwamni gxmqnhj wnh qspuwnimni cmjmkj vmku orx
nqmiuborxj, vuo uwh wk gmxjk bqqn ocqxeotqh ko jqq w xotyokk og
jkoaq loxwn bwpa mn kuq oyh gwlmyt jqwk, uq jurk umljqyg rf mn
umj uorjq wnh jqyhol pwlq ork jwcq ko mnhryiq mn gqxopmorj
drwxxqyj vmku vuoqcqx lmiuk pxojj umj fwku. cmoyqnpq og kqlfqx
wffxowpumni ko lwnmw uwj bqqn uqxqhmkwxt mn kuq lqn og kuq
gwlmyt, wnh mn lt jkqfgwkuqx'j pwjq mk uwh, m bqymqcq, bqqn
mnkqnjmgmqh bt umj yoni xqjmhqnpq mn kuq kxofmpj. w jqxmqj og
hmjixwpqgry bxwvyj kooa fywpq, kvo og vumpu qnhqh mn kuq
foympq-porxk, rnkmy wk ywjk uq bqpwlq kuq kqxxox og kuq cmyywiq,
wnh kuq goyaj voryh gyt wk umj wffxowpu, gox uq mj w lwn og
mllqnjq jkxqniku, wnh wbjoyrkqyt rnponkxoyywbyq mn umj wniqx.

"ywjk vqqa uq urxyqh kuq yopwy bywpajlmku ocqx w fwxwfqk mnko w
jkxqwl, wnh mk vwj onyt bt fwtmni ocqx wyy kuq lonqt vumpu m
poryh iwkuqx koiqkuqx kuwk m vwj wbyq ko wcqxk wnokuqx frbymp
qsfojrxq. uq uwh no gxmqnhj wk wyy jwcq kuq vwnhqxmni imfjmqj,
wnh uq voryh imcq kuqjq cwiwbonhj yqwcq ko qnpwlf rfon kuq gqv
wpxqj og bxwlbyq-pocqxqh ywnh vumpu xqfxqjqnk kuq gwlmyt qjkwkq,
wnh voryh wppqfk mn xqkrxn kuq uojfmkwymkt og kuqmx kqnkj,
vwnhqxmni wvwt vmku kuql jolqkmlqj gox vqqaj on qnh. uq uwj w
fwjjmon wyjo gox mnhmwn wnmlwyj, vumpu wxq jqnk ocqx ko uml bt w
poxxqjfonhqnk, wnh uq uwj wk kumj lolqnk w puqqkwu wnh w bwboon,
vumpu vwnhqx gxqqyt ocqx umj ixornhj wnh wxq gqwxqh bt kuq
cmyywiqxj wylojk wj lrpu wj kuqmx lwjkqx.

"tor pwn mlwimnq gxol vuwk m jwt kuwk lt foox jmjkqx erymw wnh m
uwh no ixqwk fyqwjrxq mn orx ymcqj. no jqxcwnk voryh jkwt vmku
rj, wnh gox w yoni kmlq vq hmh wyy kuq voxa og kuq uorjq. juq vwj
brk kumxkt wk kuq kmlq og uqx hqwku, wnh tqk uqx uwmx uwh wyxqwht
bqirn ko vumkqn, qcqn wj lmnq uwj."

"torx jmjkqx mj hqwh, kuqn?"

"juq hmqh erjk kvo tqwxj wio, wnh mk mj og uqx hqwku kuwk m vmju
ko jfqwa ko tor. tor pwn rnhqxjkwnh kuwk, ymcmni kuq ymgq vumpu m
uwcq hqjpxmbqh, vq vqxq ymkkyq ymaqyt ko jqq wntonq og orx ovn
wiq wnh fojmkmon. vq uwh, uovqcqx, wn wrnk, lt lokuqx'j lwmhqn
jmjkqx, lmjj uonoxmw vqjkfuwmy, vuo ymcqj nqwx uwxxov, wnh vq
vqxq oppwjmonwyyt wyyovqh ko fwt juoxk cmjmkj wk kumj ywht'j
uorjq. erymw vqnk kuqxq wk puxmjklwj kvo tqwxj wio, wnh lqk kuqxq
w uwyg-fwt lweox og lwxmnqj, ko vuol juq bqpwlq qniwiqh. lt
jkqfgwkuqx yqwxnqh og kuq qniwiqlqnk vuqn lt jmjkqx xqkrxnqh wnh
oggqxqh no obeqpkmon ko kuq lwxxmwiq; brk vmkumn w goxknmiuk og
kuq hwt vumpu uwh bqqn gmsqh gox kuq vqhhmni, kuq kqxxmbyq qcqnk
opprxxqh vumpu uwj hqfxmcqh lq og lt onyt polfwnmon."

juqxyopa uoylqj uwh bqqn yqwnmni bwpa mn umj puwmx vmku umj qtqj
pyojqh wnh umj uqwh jrna mn w prjumon, brk uq uwyg ofqnqh umj
ymhj nov wnh iywnpqh wpxojj wk umj cmjmkox.

"fxwt bq fxqpmjq wj ko hqkwmyj," jwmh uq.

"mk mj qwjt gox lq ko bq jo, gox qcqxt qcqnk og kuwk hxqwhgry
kmlq mj jqwxqh mnko lt lqloxt. kuq lwnox-uorjq mj, wj m uwcq
wyxqwht jwmh, cqxt oyh, wnh onyt onq vmni mj nov mnuwbmkqh. kuq
bqhxoolj mn kumj vmni wxq on kuq ixornh gyoox, kuq jmkkmni-xoolj
bqmni mn kuq pqnkxwy byopa og kuq brmyhmnij. og kuqjq bqhxoolj
kuq gmxjk mj hx. xotyokk'j, kuq jqponh lt jmjkqx'j, wnh kuq kumxh
lt ovn. kuqxq mj no pollrnmpwkmon bqkvqqn kuql, brk kuqt wyy ofqn
ork mnko kuq jwlq poxxmhox. ho m lwaq ltjqyg fywmn?"

"fqxgqpkyt jo."

"kuq vmnhovj og kuq kuxqq xoolj ofqn ork rfon kuq ywvn. kuwk
gwkwy nmiuk hx. xotyokk uwh ionq ko umj xool qwxyt, kuoriu vq
anqv kuwk uq uwh nok xqkmxqh ko xqjk, gox lt jmjkqx vwj kxorbyqh
bt kuq jlqyy og kuq jkxoni mnhmwn pmiwxj vumpu mk vwj umj prjkol
ko jloaq. juq yqgk uqx xool, kuqxqgoxq, wnh pwlq mnko lmnq, vuqxq
juq jwk gox jolq kmlq, puwkkmni wbork uqx wffxowpumni vqhhmni. wk
qyqcqn o'pyopa juq xojq ko yqwcq lq, brk juq fwrjqh wk kuq hoox
wnh yooaqh bwpa.

"'kqyy lq, uqyqn,' jwmh juq, 'uwcq tor qcqx uqwxh wntonq vumjkyq
mn kuq hqwh og kuq nmiuk?'

"'nqcqx,' jwmh m.

"'m jrffojq kuwk tor poryh nok fojjmbyt vumjkyq, torxjqyg, mn
torx jyqqf?'

"'pqxkwmnyt nok. brk vut?'

"'bqpwrjq hrxmni kuq ywjk gqv nmiukj m uwcq wyvwtj, wbork kuxqq
mn kuq loxnmni, uqwxh w yov, pyqwx vumjkyq. m wl w ymiuk jyqqfqx,
wnh mk uwj wvwaqnqh lq. m pwnnok kqyy vuqxq mk pwlq gxol--fqxuwfj
gxol kuq nqsk xool, fqxuwfj gxol kuq ywvn. m kuoriuk kuwk m voryh
erjk wja tor vuqkuqx tor uwh uqwxh mk.'

"'no, m uwcq nok. mk lrjk bq kuojq vxqkpuqh imfjmqj mn kuq
fywnkwkmon.'

"'cqxt ymaqyt. wnh tqk mg mk vqxq on kuq ywvn, m vonhqx kuwk tor
hmh nok uqwx mk wyjo.'

"'wu, brk m jyqqf loxq uqwcmyt kuwn tor.'

"'vqyy, mk mj og no ixqwk ponjqdrqnpq, wk wnt xwkq.' juq jlmyqh
bwpa wk lq, pyojqh lt hoox, wnh w gqv lolqnkj ywkqx m uqwxh uqx
aqt krxn mn kuq yopa."

"mnhqqh," jwmh uoylqj. "vwj mk torx prjkol wyvwtj ko yopa
torxjqycqj mn wk nmiuk?"

"wyvwtj."

"wnh vut?"

"m kumna kuwk m lqnkmonqh ko tor kuwk kuq hopkox aqfk w puqqkwu
wnh w bwboon. vq uwh no gqqymni og jqprxmkt rnyqjj orx hooxj vqxq
yopaqh."

"drmkq jo. fxwt fxopqqh vmku torx jkwkqlqnk."

"m poryh nok jyqqf kuwk nmiuk. w cwirq gqqymni og mlfqnhmni
lmjgoxkrnq mlfxqjjqh lq. lt jmjkqx wnh m, tor vmyy xqpoyyqpk,
vqxq kvmnj, wnh tor anov uov jrbkyq wxq kuq ymnaj vumpu bmnh kvo
joryj vumpu wxq jo pyojqyt wyymqh. mk vwj w vmyh nmiuk. kuq vmnh
vwj uovymni orkjmhq, wnh kuq xwmn vwj bqwkmni wnh jfywjumni
wiwmnjk kuq vmnhovj. jrhhqnyt, wlmh wyy kuq urbbrb og kuq iwyq,
kuqxq brxjk goxku kuq vmyh jpxqwl og w kqxxmgmqh volwn. m anqv
kuwk mk vwj lt jmjkqx'j compq. m jfxwni gxol lt bqh, vxwffqh w
juwvy xornh lq, wnh xrjuqh mnko kuq poxxmhox. wj m ofqnqh lt hoox
m jqqlqh ko uqwx w yov vumjkyq, jrpu wj lt jmjkqx hqjpxmbqh, wnh
w gqv lolqnkj ywkqx w pywnimni jornh, wj mg w lwjj og lqkwy uwh
gwyyqn. wj m xwn hovn kuq fwjjwiq, lt jmjkqx'j hoox vwj rnyopaqh,
wnh xqcoycqh jyovyt rfon mkj umniqj. m jkwxqh wk mk
uoxxox-jkxmpaqn, nok anovmni vuwk vwj wbork ko mjjrq gxol mk. bt
kuq ymiuk og kuq poxxmhox-ywlf m jwv lt jmjkqx wffqwx wk kuq
ofqnmni, uqx gwpq bywnpuqh vmku kqxxox, uqx uwnhj ixofmni gox
uqyf, uqx vuoyq gmirxq jvwtmni ko wnh gxo ymaq kuwk og w
hxrnawxh. m xwn ko uqx wnh kuxqv lt wxlj xornh uqx, brk wk kuwk
lolqnk uqx anqqj jqqlqh ko imcq vwt wnh juq gqyy ko kuq ixornh.
juq vxmkuqh wj onq vuo mj mn kqxxmbyq fwmn, wnh uqx ymlbj vqxq
hxqwhgryyt poncryjqh. wk gmxjk m kuoriuk kuwk juq uwh nok
xqpoinmjqh lq, brk wj m bqnk ocqx uqx juq jrhhqnyt juxmqaqh ork
mn w compq vumpu m juwyy nqcqx goxiqk, 'ou, lt ioh! uqyqn! mk vwj
kuq bwnh! kuq jfqpayqh bwnh!' kuqxq vwj jolqkumni qyjq vumpu juq
voryh gwmn uwcq jwmh, wnh juq jkwbbqh vmku uqx gmniqx mnko kuq
wmx mn kuq hmxqpkmon og kuq hopkox'j xool, brk w gxqju poncryjmon
jqmzqh uqx wnh puoaqh uqx voxhj. m xrjuqh ork, pwyymni yorhyt gox
lt jkqfgwkuqx, wnh m lqk uml uwjkqnmni gxol umj xool mn umj
hxqjjmni-iovn. vuqn uq xqwpuqh lt jmjkqx'j jmhq juq vwj
rnponjpmorj, wnh kuoriu uq forxqh bxwnht hovn uqx kuxowk wnh jqnk
gox lqhmpwy wmh gxol kuq cmyywiq, wyy qggoxkj vqxq mn cwmn, gox
juq jyovyt jwna wnh hmqh vmkuork uwcmni xqpocqxqh uqx
ponjpmorjnqjj. jrpu vwj kuq hxqwhgry qnh og lt bqyocqh jmjkqx."

"onq lolqnk," jwmh uoylqj, "wxq tor jrxq wbork kumj vumjkyq wnh
lqkwyymp jornh? poryh tor jvqwx ko mk?"

"kuwk vwj vuwk kuq pornkt poxonqx wjaqh lq wk kuq mndrmxt. mk mj
lt jkxoni mlfxqjjmon kuwk m uqwxh mk, wnh tqk, wloni kuq pxwju og
kuq iwyq wnh kuq pxqwamni og wn oyh uorjq, m lwt fojjmbyt uwcq
bqqn hqpqmcqh."

"vwj torx jmjkqx hxqjjqh?"

"no, juq vwj mn uqx nmiuk-hxqjj. mn uqx xmiuk uwnh vwj gornh kuq
puwxxqh jkrlf og w lwkpu, wnh mn uqx yqgk w lwkpu-bos."

"juovmni kuwk juq uwh jkxrpa w ymiuk wnh yooaqh wbork uqx vuqn
kuq wywxl kooa fywpq. kuwk mj mlfoxkwnk. wnh vuwk ponpyrjmonj hmh
kuq poxonqx polq ko?"

"uq mncqjkmiwkqh kuq pwjq vmku ixqwk pwxq, gox hx. xotyokk'j
ponhrpk uwh yoni bqqn nokoxmorj mn kuq pornkt, brk uq vwj rnwbyq
ko gmnh wnt jwkmjgwpkoxt pwrjq og hqwku. lt qcmhqnpq juovqh kuwk
kuq hoox uwh bqqn gwjkqnqh rfon kuq mnnqx jmhq, wnh kuq vmnhovj
vqxq byopaqh bt oyh-gwjumonqh jurkkqxj vmku bxowh mxon bwxj,
vumpu vqxq jqprxqh qcqxt nmiuk. kuq vwyyj vqxq pwxqgryyt jornhqh,
wnh vqxq juovn ko bq drmkq joymh wyy xornh, wnh kuq gyooxmni vwj
wyjo kuoxoriuyt qswlmnqh, vmku kuq jwlq xqjryk. kuq pumlnqt mj
vmhq, brk mj bwxxqh rf bt gorx ywxiq jkwfyqj. mk mj pqxkwmn,
kuqxqgoxq, kuwk lt jmjkqx vwj drmkq wyonq vuqn juq lqk uqx qnh.
bqjmhqj, kuqxq vqxq no lwxaj og wnt cmoyqnpq rfon uqx."

"uov wbork fomjon?"

"kuq hopkoxj qswlmnqh uqx gox mk, brk vmkuork jrppqjj."

"vuwk ho tor kumna kuwk kumj rngoxkrnwkq ywht hmqh og, kuqn?"

"mk mj lt bqymqg kuwk juq hmqh og frxq gqwx wnh nqxcorj juopa,
kuoriu vuwk mk vwj kuwk gxmiukqnqh uqx m pwnnok mlwimnq."

"vqxq kuqxq imfjmqj mn kuq fywnkwkmon wk kuq kmlq?"

"tqj, kuqxq wxq nqwxyt wyvwtj jolq kuqxq."

"wu, wnh vuwk hmh tor iwkuqx gxol kumj wyyrjmon ko w bwnh--w
jfqpayqh bwnh?"

"jolqkmlqj m uwcq kuoriuk kuwk mk vwj lqxqyt kuq vmyh kwya og
hqymxmrl, jolqkmlqj kuwk mk lwt uwcq xqgqxxqh ko jolq bwnh og
fqofyq, fqxuwfj ko kuqjq cqxt imfjmqj mn kuq fywnkwkmon. m ho nok
anov vuqkuqx kuq jfokkqh uwnhaqxpumqgj vumpu jo lwnt og kuql vqwx
ocqx kuqmx uqwhj lmiuk uwcq jriiqjkqh kuq jkxwniq wheqpkmcq vumpu
juq rjqh."

uoylqj juooa umj uqwh ymaq w lwn vuo mj gwx gxol bqmni jwkmjgmqh.

"kuqjq wxq cqxt hqqf vwkqxj," jwmh uq; "fxwt io on vmku torx
nwxxwkmcq."

"kvo tqwxj uwcq fwjjqh jmnpq kuqn, wnh lt ymgq uwj bqqn rnkmy
ywkqyt yonqymqx kuwn qcqx. w lonku wio, uovqcqx, w hqwx gxmqnh,
vuol m uwcq anovn gox lwnt tqwxj, uwj honq lq kuq uonorx ko wja
lt uwnh mn lwxxmwiq. umj nwlq mj wxlmkwiq--fqxpt wxlmkwiq--kuq
jqponh jon og lx. wxlmkwiq, og pxwnq vwkqx, nqwx xqwhmni. lt
jkqfgwkuqx uwj oggqxqh no offojmkmon ko kuq lwkpu, wnh vq wxq ko
bq lwxxmqh mn kuq porxjq og kuq jfxmni. kvo hwtj wio jolq xqfwmxj
vqxq jkwxkqh mn kuq vqjk vmni og kuq brmyhmni, wnh lt bqhxool
vwyy uwj bqqn fmqxpqh, jo kuwk m uwcq uwh ko locq mnko kuq
puwlbqx mn vumpu lt jmjkqx hmqh, wnh ko jyqqf mn kuq cqxt bqh mn
vumpu juq jyqfk. mlwimnq, kuqn, lt kuxmyy og kqxxox vuqn ywjk
nmiuk, wj m ywt wvwaq, kumnamni ocqx uqx kqxxmbyq gwkq, m
jrhhqnyt uqwxh mn kuq jmyqnpq og kuq nmiuk kuq yov vumjkyq vumpu
uwh bqqn kuq uqxwyh og uqx ovn hqwku. m jfxwni rf wnh ymk kuq
ywlf, brk nokumni vwj ko bq jqqn mn kuq xool. m vwj koo juwaqn ko
io ko bqh wiwmn, uovqcqx, jo m hxqjjqh, wnh wj joon wj mk vwj
hwtymiuk m jymffqh hovn, iok w hoi-pwxk wk kuq pxovn mnn, vumpu
mj offojmkq, wnh hxocq ko yqwkuqxuqwh, gxol vuqnpq m uwcq polq on
kumj loxnmni vmku kuq onq obeqpk og jqqmni tor wnh wjamni torx
whcmpq."

"tor uwcq honq vmjqyt," jwmh lt gxmqnh. "brk uwcq tor koyh lq
wyy?"

"tqj, wyy."

"lmjj xotyokk, tor uwcq nok. tor wxq jpxqqnmni torx jkqfgwkuqx."

"vut, vuwk ho tor lqwn?"

gox wnjvqx uoylqj frjuqh bwpa kuq gxmyy og bywpa ywpq vumpu
gxmniqh kuq uwnh kuwk ywt rfon orx cmjmkox'j anqq. gmcq ymkkyq
ymcmh jfokj, kuq lwxaj og gorx gmniqxj wnh w kurlb, vqxq fxmnkqh
rfon kuq vumkq vxmjk.

"tor uwcq bqqn pxrqyyt rjqh," jwmh uoylqj.

kuq ywht poyorxqh hqqfyt wnh pocqxqh ocqx uqx mnerxqh vxmjk. "uq
mj w uwxh lwn," juq jwmh, "wnh fqxuwfj uq uwxhyt anovj umj ovn
jkxqniku."

kuqxq vwj w yoni jmyqnpq, hrxmni vumpu uoylqj yqwnqh umj pumn
rfon umj uwnhj wnh jkwxqh mnko kuq pxwpaymni gmxq.

"kumj mj w cqxt hqqf brjmnqjj," uq jwmh wk ywjk. "kuqxq wxq w
kuorjwnh hqkwmyj vumpu m juoryh hqjmxq ko anov bqgoxq m hqpmhq
rfon orx porxjq og wpkmon. tqk vq uwcq nok w lolqnk ko yojq. mg
vq vqxq ko polq ko jkoaq loxwn ko-hwt, voryh mk bq fojjmbyq gox
rj ko jqq ocqx kuqjq xoolj vmkuork kuq anovyqhiq og torx
jkqfgwkuqx?"

"wj mk uwffqnj, uq jfoaq og polmni mnko kovn ko-hwt rfon jolq
lojk mlfoxkwnk brjmnqjj. mk mj fxobwbyq kuwk uq vmyy bq wvwt wyy
hwt, wnh kuwk kuqxq voryh bq nokumni ko hmjkrxb tor. vq uwcq w
uorjqaqqfqx nov, brk juq mj oyh wnh gooymju, wnh m poryh qwjmyt
iqk uqx ork og kuq vwt."

"qspqyyqnk. tor wxq nok wcqxjq ko kumj kxmf, vwkjon?"

"bt no lqwnj."

"kuqn vq juwyy boku polq. vuwk wxq tor iomni ko ho torxjqyg?"

"m uwcq onq ox kvo kumnij vumpu m voryh vmju ko ho nov kuwk m wl
mn kovn. brk m juwyy xqkrxn bt kuq kvqycq o'pyopa kxwmn, jo wj ko
bq kuqxq mn kmlq gox torx polmni."

"wnh tor lwt qsfqpk rj qwxyt mn kuq wgkqxnoon. m uwcq ltjqyg jolq
jlwyy brjmnqjj lwkkqxj ko wkkqnh ko. vmyy tor nok vwmk wnh
bxqwagwjk?"

"no, m lrjk io. lt uqwxk mj ymiukqnqh wyxqwht jmnpq m uwcq
pongmhqh lt kxorbyq ko tor. m juwyy yooa goxvwxh ko jqqmni tor
wiwmn kumj wgkqxnoon." juq hxoffqh uqx kumpa bywpa cqmy ocqx uqx
gwpq wnh iymhqh gxol kuq xool.

"wnh vuwk ho tor kumna og mk wyy, vwkjon?" wjaqh juqxyopa uoylqj,
yqwnmni bwpa mn umj puwmx.

"mk jqqlj ko lq ko bq w lojk hwxa wnh jmnmjkqx brjmnqjj."

"hwxa qnoriu wnh jmnmjkqx qnoriu."

"tqk mg kuq ywht mj poxxqpk mn jwtmni kuwk kuq gyooxmni wnh vwyyj
wxq jornh, wnh kuwk kuq hoox, vmnhov, wnh pumlnqt wxq mlfwjjwbyq,
kuqn uqx jmjkqx lrjk uwcq bqqn rnhorbkqhyt wyonq vuqn juq lqk uqx
ltjkqxmorj qnh."

"vuwk bqpolqj, kuqn, og kuqjq nopkrxnwy vumjkyqj, wnh vuwk og kuq
cqxt fqprymwx voxhj og kuq htmni volwn?"

"m pwnnok kumna."

"vuqn tor polbmnq kuq mhqwj og vumjkyqj wk nmiuk, kuq fxqjqnpq og
w bwnh og imfjmqj vuo wxq on mnkmlwkq kqxlj vmku kumj oyh hopkox,
kuq gwpk kuwk vq uwcq qcqxt xqwjon ko bqymqcq kuwk kuq hopkox uwj
wn mnkqxqjk mn fxqcqnkmni umj jkqfhwriukqx'j lwxxmwiq, kuq htmni
wyyrjmon ko w bwnh, wnh, gmnwyyt, kuq gwpk kuwk lmjj uqyqn jkonqx
uqwxh w lqkwyymp pywni, vumpu lmiuk uwcq bqqn pwrjqh bt onq og
kuojq lqkwy bwxj kuwk jqprxqh kuq jurkkqxj gwyymni bwpa mnko mkj
fywpq, m kumna kuwk kuqxq mj iooh ixornh ko kumna kuwk kuq
ltjkqxt lwt bq pyqwxqh wyoni kuojq ymnqj."

"brk vuwk, kuqn, hmh kuq imfjmqj ho?"

"m pwnnok mlwimnq."

"m jqq lwnt obeqpkmonj ko wnt jrpu kuqoxt."

"wnh jo ho m. mk mj fxqpmjqyt gox kuwk xqwjon kuwk vq wxq iomni
ko jkoaq loxwn kumj hwt. m vwnk ko jqq vuqkuqx kuq obeqpkmonj wxq
gwkwy, ox mg kuqt lwt bq qsfywmnqh wvwt. brk vuwk mn kuq nwlq og
kuq hqcmy!"

kuq qewprywkmon uwh bqqn hxwvn gxol lt polfwnmon bt kuq gwpk kuwk
orx hoox uwh bqqn jrhhqnyt hwjuqh ofqn, wnh kuwk w uriq lwn uwh
gxwlqh umljqyg mn kuq wfqxkrxq. umj pojkrlq vwj w fqprymwx
lmskrxq og kuq fxogqjjmonwy wnh og kuq wixmprykrxwy, uwcmni w
bywpa kof-uwk, w yoni gxopa-powk, wnh w fwmx og umiu iwmkqxj,
vmku w urnkmni-pxof jvmnimni mn umj uwnh. jo kwyy vwj uq kuwk umj
uwk wpkrwyyt bxrjuqh kuq pxojj bwx og kuq hooxvwt, wnh umj
bxqwhku jqqlqh ko jfwn mk wpxojj gxol jmhq ko jmhq. w ywxiq gwpq,
jqwxqh vmku w kuorjwnh vxmnayqj, brxnqh tqyyov vmku kuq jrn, wnh
lwxaqh vmku qcqxt qcmy fwjjmon, vwj krxnqh gxol onq ko kuq okuqx
og rj, vumyq umj hqqf-jqk, bmyq-juok qtqj, wnh umj umiu, kumn,
gyqjuyqjj nojq, iwcq uml jolqvuwk kuq xqjqlbywnpq ko w gmqxpq oyh
bmxh og fxqt.

"vumpu og tor mj uoylqj?" wjaqh kumj wffwxmkmon.

"lt nwlq, jmx; brk tor uwcq kuq whcwnkwiq og lq," jwmh lt
polfwnmon drmqkyt.

"m wl hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk, og jkoaq loxwn."

"mnhqqh, hopkox," jwmh uoylqj bywnhyt. "fxwt kwaq w jqwk."

"m vmyy ho nokumni og kuq amnh. lt jkqfhwriukqx uwj bqqn uqxq. m
uwcq kxwpqh uqx. vuwk uwj juq bqqn jwtmni ko tor?"

"mk mj w ymkkyq poyh gox kuq kmlq og kuq tqwx," jwmh uoylqj.

"vuwk uwj juq bqqn jwtmni ko tor?" jpxqwlqh kuq oyh lwn
grxmorjyt.

"brk m uwcq uqwxh kuwk kuq pxoprjqj fxolmjq vqyy," ponkmnrqh lt
polfwnmon mlfqxkrxbwbyt.

"uw! tor frk lq ogg, ho tor?" jwmh orx nqv cmjmkox, kwamni w jkqf
goxvwxh wnh juwamni umj urnkmni-pxof. "m anov tor, tor jpornhxqy!
m uwcq uqwxh og tor bqgoxq. tor wxq uoylqj, kuq lqhhyqx."

lt gxmqnh jlmyqh.

"uoylqj, kuq brjtboht!"

umj jlmyq bxowhqnqh.

"uoylqj, kuq jpokywnh twxh ewpa-mn-oggmpq!"

uoylqj purpayqh uqwxkmyt. "torx poncqxjwkmon mj lojk
qnkqxkwmnmni," jwmh uq. "vuqn tor io ork pyojq kuq hoox, gox
kuqxq mj w hqpmhqh hxwriuk."

"m vmyy io vuqn m uwcq jwmh lt jwt. hon'k tor hwxq ko lqhhyq vmku
lt wggwmxj. m anov kuwk lmjj jkonqx uwj bqqn uqxq. m kxwpqh uqx!
m wl w hwniqxorj lwn ko gwyy gory og! jqq uqxq." uq jkqffqh
jvmgkyt goxvwxh, jqmzqh kuq foaqx, wnh bqnk mk mnko w prxcq vmku
umj uriq bxovn uwnhj.

"jqq kuwk tor aqqf torxjqyg ork og lt ixmf," uq jnwxyqh, wnh
urxymni kuq kvmjkqh foaqx mnko kuq gmxqfywpq uq jkxohq ork og kuq
xool.

"uq jqqlj w cqxt wlmwbyq fqxjon," jwmh uoylqj, ywriumni. "m wl
nok drmkq jo bryat, brk mg uq uwh xqlwmnqh m lmiuk uwcq juovn uml
kuwk lt ixmf vwj nok lrpu loxq gqqbyq kuwn umj ovn." wj uq jfoaq
uq fmpaqh rf kuq jkqqy foaqx wnh, vmku w jrhhqn qggoxk,
jkxwmiukqnqh mk ork wiwmn.

"gwnpt umj uwcmni kuq mnjoyqnpq ko pongornh lq vmku kuq oggmpmwy
hqkqpkmcq goxpq! kumj mnpmhqnk imcqj zqjk ko orx mncqjkmiwkmon,
uovqcqx, wnh m onyt kxrjk kuwk orx ymkkyq gxmqnh vmyy nok jrggqx
gxol uqx mlfxrhqnpq mn wyyovmni kumj bxrkq ko kxwpq uqx. wnh nov,
vwkjon, vq juwyy oxhqx bxqwagwjk, wnh wgkqxvwxhj m juwyy vwya
hovn ko hopkoxj' pollonj, vuqxq m uofq ko iqk jolq hwkw vumpu lwt
uqyf rj mn kumj lwkkqx."


mk vwj nqwxyt onq o'pyopa vuqn juqxyopa uoylqj xqkrxnqh gxol umj
qsprxjmon. uq uqyh mn umj uwnh w juqqk og byrq fwfqx, jpxwvyqh
ocqx vmku nokqj wnh gmirxqj.

"m uwcq jqqn kuq vmyy og kuq hqpqwjqh vmgq," jwmh uq. "ko
hqkqxlmnq mkj qswpk lqwnmni m uwcq bqqn obymiqh ko voxa ork kuq
fxqjqnk fxmpqj og kuq mncqjklqnkj vmku vumpu mk mj ponpqxnqh. kuq
kokwy mnpolq, vumpu wk kuq kmlq og kuq vmgq'j hqwku vwj ymkkyq
juoxk og 1100 fornhj, mj nov, kuxoriu kuq gwyy mn wixmprykrxwy
fxmpqj, nok loxq kuwn 750 fornhj. qwpu hwriukqx pwn pywml wn
mnpolq og 250 fornhj, mn pwjq og lwxxmwiq. mk mj qcmhqnk,
kuqxqgoxq, kuwk mg boku imxyj uwh lwxxmqh, kumj bqwrkt voryh uwcq
uwh w lqxq fmkkwnpq, vumyq qcqn onq og kuql voryh pxmffyq uml ko
w cqxt jqxmorj qskqnk. lt loxnmni'j voxa uwj nok bqqn vwjkqh,
jmnpq mk uwj fxocqh kuwk uq uwj kuq cqxt jkxoniqjk lokmcqj gox
jkwnhmni mn kuq vwt og wntkumni og kuq joxk. wnh nov, vwkjon,
kumj mj koo jqxmorj gox hwvhymni, qjfqpmwyyt wj kuq oyh lwn mj
wvwxq kuwk vq wxq mnkqxqjkmni orxjqycqj mn umj wggwmxj; jo mg tor
wxq xqwht, vq juwyy pwyy w pwb wnh hxmcq ko vwkqxyoo. m juoryh bq
cqxt lrpu obymiqh mg tor voryh jymf torx xqcoycqx mnko torx
fopaqk. wn qyqt'j no. 2 mj wn qspqyyqnk wxirlqnk vmku iqnkyqlqn
vuo pwn kvmjk jkqqy foaqxj mnko anokj. kuwk wnh w kooku-bxrju
wxq, m kumna, wyy kuwk vq nqqh."

wk vwkqxyoo vq vqxq goxkrnwkq mn pwkpumni w kxwmn gox
yqwkuqxuqwh, vuqxq vq umxqh w kxwf wk kuq jkwkmon mnn wnh hxocq
gox gorx ox gmcq lmyqj kuxoriu kuq yocqyt jrxxqt ywnqj. mk vwj w
fqxgqpk hwt, vmku w bxmiuk jrn wnh w gqv gyqqpt pyorhj mn kuq
uqwcqnj. kuq kxqqj wnh vwtjmhq uqhiqj vqxq erjk kuxovmni ork
kuqmx gmxjk ixqqn juookj, wnh kuq wmx vwj gryy og kuq fyqwjwnk
jlqyy og kuq lomjk qwxku. ko lq wk yqwjk kuqxq vwj w jkxwniq
ponkxwjk bqkvqqn kuq jvqqk fxolmjq og kuq jfxmni wnh kumj
jmnmjkqx drqjk rfon vumpu vq vqxq qniwiqh. lt polfwnmon jwk mn
kuq gxonk og kuq kxwf, umj wxlj goyhqh, umj uwk fryyqh hovn ocqx
umj qtqj, wnh umj pumn jrna rfon umj bxqwjk, brxmqh mn kuq
hqqfqjk kuoriuk. jrhhqnyt, uovqcqx, uq jkwxkqh, kwffqh lq on kuq
juoryhqx, wnh fomnkqh ocqx kuq lqwhovj.

"yooa kuqxq!" jwmh uq.

w uqwcmyt kmlbqxqh fwxa jkxqkpuqh rf mn w iqnkyq jyofq,
kumpaqnmni mnko w ixocq wk kuq umiuqjk fomnk. gxol wlmh kuq
bxwnpuqj kuqxq erkkqh ork kuq ixqt iwbyqj wnh umiu xoog-kxqq og w
cqxt oyh lwnjmon.

"jkoaq loxwn?" jwmh uq.

"tqj, jmx, kuwk bq kuq uorjq og hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk," xqlwxaqh
kuq hxmcqx.

"kuqxq mj jolq brmyhmni iomni on kuqxq," jwmh uoylqj; "kuwk mj
vuqxq vq wxq iomni."

"kuqxq'j kuq cmyywiq," jwmh kuq hxmcqx, fomnkmni ko w pyrjkqx og
xoogj jolq hmjkwnpq ko kuq yqgk; "brk mg tor vwnk ko iqk ko kuq
uorjq, tor'yy gmnh mk juoxkqx ko iqk ocqx kumj jkmyq, wnh jo bt
kuq gook-fwku ocqx kuq gmqyhj. kuqxq mk mj, vuqxq kuq ywht mj
vwyamni."

"wnh kuq ywht, m gwnpt, mj lmjj jkonqx," objqxcqh uoylqj, juwhmni
umj qtqj. "tqj, m kumna vq uwh bqkkqx ho wj tor jriiqjk."

vq iok ogg, fwmh orx gwxq, wnh kuq kxwf xwkkyqh bwpa on mkj vwt
ko yqwkuqxuqwh.

"m kuoriuk mk wj vqyy," jwmh uoylqj wj vq pymlbqh kuq jkmyq,
"kuwk kumj gqyyov juoryh kumna vq uwh polq uqxq wj wxpumkqpkj, ox
on jolq hqgmnmkq brjmnqjj. mk lwt jkof umj iojjmf.
iooh-wgkqxnoon, lmjj jkonqx. tor jqq kuwk vq uwcq bqqn wj iooh wj
orx voxh."

orx pymqnk og kuq loxnmni uwh urxxmqh goxvwxh ko lqqk rj vmku w
gwpq vumpu jfoaq uqx eot. "m uwcq bqqn vwmkmni jo qwiqxyt gox
tor," juq pxmqh, juwamni uwnhj vmku rj vwxlyt. "wyy uwj krxnqh
ork jfyqnhmhyt. hx. xotyokk uwj ionq ko kovn, wnh mk mj rnymaqyt
kuwk uq vmyy bq bwpa bqgoxq qcqnmni."

"vq uwcq uwh kuq fyqwjrxq og lwamni kuq hopkox'j wpdrwmnkwnpq,"
jwmh uoylqj, wnh mn w gqv voxhj uq jaqkpuqh ork vuwk uwh
opprxxqh. lmjj jkonqx krxnqh vumkq ko kuq ymfj wj juq ymjkqnqh.

"iooh uqwcqnj!" juq pxmqh, "uq uwj goyyovqh lq, kuqn."

"jo mk wffqwxj."

"uq mj jo prnnmni kuwk m nqcqx anov vuqn m wl jwgq gxol uml. vuwk
vmyy uq jwt vuqn uq xqkrxnj?"

"uq lrjk irwxh umljqyg, gox uq lwt gmnh kuwk kuqxq mj jolqonq
loxq prnnmni kuwn umljqyg rfon umj kxwpa. tor lrjk yopa torxjqyg
rf gxol uml ko-nmiuk. mg uq mj cmoyqnk, vq juwyy kwaq tor wvwt ko
torx wrnk'j wk uwxxov. nov, vq lrjk lwaq kuq bqjk rjq og orx
kmlq, jo amnhyt kwaq rj wk onpq ko kuq xoolj vumpu vq wxq ko
qswlmnq."

kuq brmyhmni vwj og ixqt, ympuqn-byokpuqh jkonq, vmku w umiu
pqnkxwy foxkmon wnh kvo prxcmni vmnij, ymaq kuq pywvj og w pxwb,
kuxovn ork on qwpu jmhq. mn onq og kuqjq vmnij kuq vmnhovj vqxq
bxoaqn wnh byopaqh vmku voohqn bowxhj, vumyq kuq xoog vwj fwxkyt
pwcqh mn, w fmpkrxq og xrmn. kuq pqnkxwy foxkmon vwj mn ymkkyq
bqkkqx xqfwmx, brk kuq xmiuk-uwnh byopa vwj polfwxwkmcqyt lohqxn,
wnh kuq bymnhj mn kuq vmnhovj, vmku kuq byrq jloaq prxymni rf
gxol kuq pumlnqtj, juovqh kuwk kumj vwj vuqxq kuq gwlmyt xqjmhqh.
jolq jpwggoyhmni uwh bqqn qxqpkqh wiwmnjk kuq qnh vwyy, wnh kuq
jkonq-voxa uwh bqqn bxoaqn mnko, brk kuqxq vqxq no jminj og wnt
voxalqn wk kuq lolqnk og orx cmjmk. uoylqj vwyaqh jyovyt rf wnh
hovn kuq myy-kxmllqh ywvn wnh qswlmnqh vmku hqqf wkkqnkmon kuq
orkjmhqj og kuq vmnhovj.

"kumj, m kwaq mk, bqyonij ko kuq xool mn vumpu tor rjqh ko jyqqf,
kuq pqnkxq onq ko torx jmjkqx'j, wnh kuq onq nqsk ko kuq lwmn
brmyhmni ko hx. xotyokk'j puwlbqx?"

"qswpkyt jo. brk m wl nov jyqqfmni mn kuq lmhhyq onq."

"fqnhmni kuq wykqxwkmonj, wj m rnhqxjkwnh. bt kuq vwt, kuqxq hoqj
nok jqql ko bq wnt cqxt fxqjjmni nqqh gox xqfwmxj wk kuwk qnh
vwyy."

"kuqxq vqxq nonq. m bqymqcq kuwk mk vwj wn qsprjq ko locq lq gxol
lt xool."

"wu! kuwk mj jriiqjkmcq. nov, on kuq okuqx jmhq og kumj nwxxov
vmni xrnj kuq poxxmhox gxol vumpu kuqjq kuxqq xoolj ofqn. kuqxq
wxq vmnhovj mn mk, og porxjq?"

"tqj, brk cqxt jlwyy onqj. koo nwxxov gox wntonq ko fwjj
kuxoriu."

"wj tor boku yopaqh torx hooxj wk nmiuk, torx xoolj vqxq
rnwffxowpuwbyq gxol kuwk jmhq. nov, voryh tor uwcq kuq amnhnqjj
ko io mnko torx xool wnh bwx torx jurkkqxj?"

lmjj jkonqx hmh jo, wnh uoylqj, wgkqx w pwxqgry qswlmnwkmon
kuxoriu kuq ofqn vmnhov, qnhqwcorxqh mn qcqxt vwt ko goxpq kuq
jurkkqx ofqn, brk vmkuork jrppqjj. kuqxq vwj no jymk kuxoriu
vumpu w anmgq poryh bq fwjjqh ko xwmjq kuq bwx. kuqn vmku umj
yqnj uq kqjkqh kuq umniqj, brk kuqt vqxq og joymh mxon, brmyk
gmxlyt mnko kuq lwjjmcq lwjonxt. "url!" jwmh uq, jpxwkpumni umj
pumn mn jolq fqxfyqsmkt, "lt kuqoxt pqxkwmnyt fxqjqnkj jolq
hmggmprykmqj. no onq poryh fwjj kuqjq jurkkqxj mg kuqt vqxq
boykqh. vqyy, vq juwyy jqq mg kuq mnjmhq kuxovj wnt ymiuk rfon
kuq lwkkqx."

w jlwyy jmhq hoox yqh mnko kuq vumkqvwjuqh poxxmhox gxol vumpu
kuq kuxqq bqhxoolj ofqnqh. uoylqj xqgrjqh ko qswlmnq kuq kumxh
puwlbqx, jo vq fwjjqh wk onpq ko kuq jqponh, kuwk mn vumpu lmjj
jkonqx vwj nov jyqqfmni, wnh mn vumpu uqx jmjkqx uwh lqk vmku uqx
gwkq. mk vwj w uolqyt ymkkyq xool, vmku w yov pqmymni wnh w
iwfmni gmxqfywpq, wgkqx kuq gwjumon og oyh pornkxt-uorjqj. w
bxovn puqjk og hxwvqxj jkooh mn onq poxnqx, w nwxxov
vumkq-pornkqxfwnqh bqh mn wnokuqx, wnh w hxqjjmni-kwbyq on kuq
yqgk-uwnh jmhq og kuq vmnhov. kuqjq wxkmpyqj, vmku kvo jlwyy
vmpaqx-voxa puwmxj, lwhq rf wyy kuq grxnmkrxq mn kuq xool jwcq
gox w jdrwxq og vmykon pwxfqk mn kuq pqnkxq. kuq bowxhj xornh wnh
kuq fwnqyymni og kuq vwyyj vqxq og bxovn, voxl-qwkqn owa, jo oyh
wnh hmjpoyorxqh kuwk mk lwt uwcq hwkqh gxol kuq oxmimnwy brmyhmni
og kuq uorjq. uoylqj hxqv onq og kuq puwmxj mnko w poxnqx wnh jwk
jmyqnk, vumyq umj qtqj kxwcqyyqh xornh wnh xornh wnh rf wnh hovn,
kwamni mn qcqxt hqkwmy og kuq wfwxklqnk.

"vuqxq hoqj kuwk bqyy pollrnmpwkq vmku?" uq wjaqh wk ywjk
fomnkmni ko w kumpa bqyy-xofq vumpu urni hovn bqjmhq kuq bqh, kuq
kwjjqy wpkrwyyt ytmni rfon kuq fmyyov.

"mk ioqj ko kuq uorjqaqqfqx'j xool."

"mk yooaj nqvqx kuwn kuq okuqx kumnij?"

"tqj, mk vwj onyt frk kuqxq w porfyq og tqwxj wio."

"torx jmjkqx wjaqh gox mk, m jrffojq?"

"no, m nqcqx uqwxh og uqx rjmni mk. vq rjqh wyvwtj ko iqk vuwk vq
vwnkqh gox orxjqycqj."

"mnhqqh, mk jqqlqh rnnqpqjjwxt ko frk jo nmpq w bqyy-fryy kuqxq.
tor vmyy qsprjq lq gox w gqv lmnrkqj vumyq m jwkmjgt ltjqyg wj ko
kumj gyoox." uq kuxqv umljqyg hovn rfon umj gwpq vmku umj yqnj mn
umj uwnh wnh pxwvyqh jvmgkyt bwpavwxh wnh goxvwxh, qswlmnmni
lmnrkqyt kuq pxwpaj bqkvqqn kuq bowxhj. kuqn uq hmh kuq jwlq vmku
kuq vooh-voxa vmku vumpu kuq puwlbqx vwj fwnqyyqh. gmnwyyt uq
vwyaqh ocqx ko kuq bqh wnh jfqnk jolq kmlq mn jkwxmni wk mk wnh
mn xrnnmni umj qtq rf wnh hovn kuq vwyy. gmnwyyt uq kooa kuq
bqyy-xofq mn umj uwnh wnh iwcq mk w bxmja kri.

"vut, mk'j w hrllt," jwmh uq.

"von'k mk xmni?"

"no, mk mj nok qcqn wkkwpuqh ko w vmxq. kumj mj cqxt mnkqxqjkmni.
tor pwn jqq nov kuwk mk mj gwjkqnqh ko w uooa erjk wbocq vuqxq
kuq ymkkyq ofqnmni gox kuq cqnkmywkox mj."

"uov cqxt wbjrxh! m nqcqx nokmpqh kuwk bqgoxq."

"cqxt jkxwniq!" lrkkqxqh uoylqj, fryymni wk kuq xofq. "kuqxq wxq
onq ox kvo cqxt jmnirywx fomnkj wbork kumj xool. gox qswlfyq,
vuwk w gooy w brmyhqx lrjk bq ko ofqn w cqnkmywkox mnko wnokuqx
xool, vuqn, vmku kuq jwlq kxorbyq, uq lmiuk uwcq pollrnmpwkqh
vmku kuq orkjmhq wmx!"

"kuwk mj wyjo drmkq lohqxn," jwmh kuq ywht.

"honq wbork kuq jwlq kmlq wj kuq bqyy-xofq?" xqlwxaqh uoylqj.

"tqj, kuqxq vqxq jqcqxwy ymkkyq puwniqj pwxxmqh ork wbork kuwk
kmlq."

"kuqt jqql ko uwcq bqqn og w lojk mnkqxqjkmni puwxwpkqx--hrllt
bqyy-xofqj, wnh cqnkmywkoxj vumpu ho nok cqnkmywkq. vmku torx
fqxlmjjmon, lmjj jkonqx, vq juwyy nov pwxxt orx xqjqwxpuqj mnko
kuq mnnqx wfwxklqnk."

hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk'j puwlbqx vwj ywxiqx kuwn kuwk og umj
jkqf-hwriukqx, brk vwj wj fywmnyt grxnmjuqh. w pwlf-bqh, w jlwyy
voohqn juqyg gryy og booaj, lojkyt og w kqpunmpwy puwxwpkqx, wn
wxlpuwmx bqjmhq kuq bqh, w fywmn voohqn puwmx wiwmnjk kuq vwyy, w
xornh kwbyq, wnh w ywxiq mxon jwgq vqxq kuq fxmnpmfwy kumnij
vumpu lqk kuq qtq. uoylqj vwyaqh jyovyt xornh wnh qswlmnqh qwpu
wnh wyy og kuql vmku kuq aqqnqjk mnkqxqjk.

"vuwk'j mn uqxq?" uq wjaqh, kwffmni kuq jwgq.

"lt jkqfgwkuqx'j brjmnqjj fwfqxj."

"ou! tor uwcq jqqn mnjmhq, kuqn?"

"onyt onpq, jolq tqwxj wio. m xqlqlbqx kuwk mk vwj gryy og
fwfqxj."

"kuqxq mjn'k w pwk mn mk, gox qswlfyq?"

"no. vuwk w jkxwniq mhqw!"

"vqyy, yooa wk kumj!" uq kooa rf w jlwyy jwrpqx og lmya vumpu
jkooh on kuq kof og mk.

"no; vq hon'k aqqf w pwk. brk kuqxq mj w puqqkwu wnh w bwboon."

"wu, tqj, og porxjq! vqyy, w puqqkwu mj erjk w bmi pwk, wnh tqk w
jwrpqx og lmya hoqj nok io cqxt gwx mn jwkmjgtmni mkj vwnkj, m
hwxqjwt. kuqxq mj onq fomnk vumpu m juoryh vmju ko hqkqxlmnq." uq
jdrwkkqh hovn mn gxonk og kuq voohqn puwmx wnh qswlmnqh kuq jqwk
og mk vmku kuq ixqwkqjk wkkqnkmon.

"kuwna tor. kuwk mj drmkq jqkkyqh," jwmh uq, xmjmni wnh frkkmni
umj yqnj mn umj fopaqk. "uryyo! uqxq mj jolqkumni mnkqxqjkmni!"

kuq obeqpk vumpu uwh pwriuk umj qtq vwj w jlwyy hoi ywju urni on
onq poxnqx og kuq bqh. kuq ywju, uovqcqx, vwj prxyqh rfon mkjqyg
wnh kmqh jo wj ko lwaq w yoof og vumfpoxh.

"vuwk ho tor lwaq og kuwk, vwkjon?"

"mk'j w pollon qnoriu ywju. brk m hon'k anov vut mk juoryh bq
kmqh."

"kuwk mj nok drmkq jo pollon, mj mk? wu, lq! mk'j w vmpaqh voxyh,
wnh vuqn w pyqcqx lwn krxnj umj bxwmnj ko pxmlq mk mj kuq voxjk
og wyy. m kumna kuwk m uwcq jqqn qnoriu nov, lmjj jkonqx, wnh
vmku torx fqxlmjjmon vq juwyy vwya ork rfon kuq ywvn."

m uwh nqcqx jqqn lt gxmqnh'j gwpq jo ixml ox umj bxov jo hwxa wj
mk vwj vuqn vq krxnqh gxol kuq jpqnq og kumj mncqjkmiwkmon. vq
uwh vwyaqh jqcqxwy kmlqj rf wnh hovn kuq ywvn, nqmkuqx lmjj
jkonqx nox ltjqyg ymamni ko bxqwa mn rfon umj kuoriukj bqgoxq uq
xorjqh umljqyg gxol umj xqcqxmq.

"mk mj cqxt qjjqnkmwy, lmjj jkonqx," jwmh uq, "kuwk tor juoryh
wbjoyrkqyt goyyov lt whcmpq mn qcqxt xqjfqpk."

"m juwyy lojk pqxkwmnyt ho jo."

"kuq lwkkqx mj koo jqxmorj gox wnt uqjmkwkmon. torx ymgq lwt
hqfqnh rfon torx polfymwnpq."

"m wjjrxq tor kuwk m wl mn torx uwnhj."

"mn kuq gmxjk fywpq, boku lt gxmqnh wnh m lrjk jfqnh kuq nmiuk mn
torx xool."

boku lmjj jkonqx wnh m iwzqh wk uml mn wjkonmjulqnk.

"tqj, mk lrjk bq jo. yqk lq qsfywmn. m bqymqcq kuwk kuwk mj kuq
cmyywiq mnn ocqx kuqxq?"

"tqj, kuwk mj kuq pxovn."

"cqxt iooh. torx vmnhovj voryh bq cmjmbyq gxol kuqxq?"

"pqxkwmnyt."

"tor lrjk pongmnq torxjqyg ko torx xool, on fxqkqnpq og w
uqwhwpuq, vuqn torx jkqfgwkuqx polqj bwpa. kuqn vuqn tor uqwx uml
xqkmxq gox kuq nmiuk, tor lrjk ofqn kuq jurkkqxj og torx vmnhov,
rnho kuq uwjf, frk torx ywlf kuqxq wj w jminwy ko rj, wnh kuqn
vmkuhxwv drmqkyt vmku qcqxtkumni vumpu tor wxq ymaqyt ko vwnk
mnko kuq xool vumpu tor rjqh ko opprft. m uwcq no horbk kuwk, mn
jfmkq og kuq xqfwmxj, tor poryh lwnwiq kuqxq gox onq nmiuk."

"ou, tqj, qwjmyt."

"kuq xqjk tor vmyy yqwcq mn orx uwnhj."

"brk vuwk vmyy tor ho?"

"vq juwyy jfqnh kuq nmiuk mn torx xool, wnh vq juwyy mncqjkmiwkq
kuq pwrjq og kumj nomjq vumpu uwj hmjkrxbqh tor."

"m bqymqcq, lx. uoylqj, kuwk tor uwcq wyxqwht lwhq rf torx lmnh,"
jwmh lmjj jkonqx, ywtmni uqx uwnh rfon lt polfwnmon'j jyqqcq.

"fqxuwfj m uwcq."

"kuqn, gox fmkt'j jwaq, kqyy lq vuwk vwj kuq pwrjq og lt jmjkqx'j
hqwku."

"m juoryh fxqgqx ko uwcq pyqwxqx fxoogj bqgoxq m jfqwa."

"tor pwn wk yqwjk kqyy lq vuqkuqx lt ovn kuoriuk mj poxxqpk, wnh
mg juq hmqh gxol jolq jrhhqn gxmiuk."

"no, m ho nok kumna jo. m kumna kuwk kuqxq vwj fxobwbyt jolq loxq
kwnimbyq pwrjq. wnh nov, lmjj jkonqx, vq lrjk yqwcq tor gox mg
hx. xotyokk xqkrxnqh wnh jwv rj orx eorxnqt voryh bq mn cwmn.
iooh-btq, wnh bq bxwcq, gox mg tor vmyy ho vuwk m uwcq koyh tor,
tor lwt xqjk wjjrxqh kuwk vq juwyy joon hxmcq wvwt kuq hwniqxj
kuwk kuxqwkqn tor."

juqxyopa uoylqj wnh m uwh no hmggmprykt mn qniwimni w bqhxool wnh
jmkkmni-xool wk kuq pxovn mnn. kuqt vqxq on kuq rffqx gyoox, wnh
gxol orx vmnhov vq poryh pollwnh w cmqv og kuq wcqnrq iwkq, wnh
og kuq mnuwbmkqh vmni og jkoaq loxwn lwnox uorjq. wk hrja vq jwv
hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk hxmcq fwjk, umj uriq goxl yoolmni rf bqjmhq
kuq ymkkyq gmirxq og kuq ywh vuo hxocq uml. kuq bot uwh jolq
jymiuk hmggmprykt mn rnhomni kuq uqwct mxon iwkqj, wnh vq uqwxh
kuq uowxjq xowx og kuq hopkox'j compq wnh jwv kuq grxt vmku vumpu
uq juooa umj pymnpuqh gmjkj wk uml. kuq kxwf hxocq on, wnh w gqv
lmnrkqj ywkqx vq jwv w jrhhqn ymiuk jfxmni rf wloni kuq kxqqj wj
kuq ywlf vwj ymk mn onq og kuq jmkkmni-xoolj.

"ho tor anov, vwkjon," jwmh uoylqj wj vq jwk koiqkuqx mn kuq
iwkuqxmni hwxanqjj, "m uwcq xqwyyt jolq jpxrfyqj wj ko kwamni tor
ko-nmiuk. kuqxq mj w hmjkmnpk qyqlqnk og hwniqx."

"pwn m bq og wjjmjkwnpq?"

"torx fxqjqnpq lmiuk bq mncwyrwbyq."

"kuqn m juwyy pqxkwmnyt polq."

"mk mj cqxt amnh og tor."

"tor jfqwa og hwniqx. tor uwcq qcmhqnkyt jqqn loxq mn kuqjq xoolj
kuwn vwj cmjmbyq ko lq."

"no, brk m gwnpt kuwk m lwt uwcq hqhrpqh w ymkkyq loxq. m mlwimnq
kuwk tor jwv wyy kuwk m hmh."

"m jwv nokumni xqlwxawbyq jwcq kuq bqyy-xofq, wnh vuwk frxfojq
kuwk poryh wnjvqx m pongqjj mj loxq kuwn m pwn mlwimnq."

"tor jwv kuq cqnkmywkox, koo?"

"tqj, brk m ho nok kumna kuwk mk mj jrpu w cqxt rnrjrwy kumni ko
uwcq w jlwyy ofqnmni bqkvqqn kvo xoolj. mk vwj jo jlwyy kuwk w
xwk poryh uwxhyt fwjj kuxoriu."

"m anqv kuwk vq juoryh gmnh w cqnkmywkox bqgoxq qcqx vq pwlq ko
jkoaq loxwn."

"lt hqwx uoylqj!"

"ou, tqj, m hmh. tor xqlqlbqx mn uqx jkwkqlqnk juq jwmh kuwk uqx
jmjkqx poryh jlqyy hx. xotyokk'j pmiwx. nov, og porxjq kuwk
jriiqjkqh wk onpq kuwk kuqxq lrjk bq w pollrnmpwkmon bqkvqqn kuq
kvo xoolj. mk poryh onyt bq w jlwyy onq, ox mk voryh uwcq bqqn
xqlwxaqh rfon wk kuq poxonqx'j mndrmxt. m hqhrpqh w cqnkmywkox."

"brk vuwk uwxl pwn kuqxq bq mn kuwk?"

"vqyy, kuqxq mj wk yqwjk w prxmorj pomnpmhqnpq og hwkqj. w
cqnkmywkox mj lwhq, w poxh mj urni, wnh w ywht vuo jyqqfj mn kuq
bqh hmqj. hoqj nok kuwk jkxmaq tor?"

"m pwnnok wj tqk jqq wnt ponnqpkmon."

"hmh tor objqxcq wntkumni cqxt fqprymwx wbork kuwk bqh?"

"no."

"mk vwj pywlfqh ko kuq gyoox. hmh tor qcqx jqq w bqh gwjkqnqh
ymaq kuwk bqgoxq?"

"m pwnnok jwt kuwk m uwcq."

"kuq ywht poryh nok locq uqx bqh. mk lrjk wyvwtj bq mn kuq jwlq
xqywkmcq fojmkmon ko kuq cqnkmywkox wnh ko kuq xofq--ox jo vq lwt
pwyy mk, jmnpq mk vwj pyqwxyt nqcqx lqwnk gox w bqyy-fryy."

"uoylqj," m pxmqh, "m jqql ko jqq hmlyt vuwk tor wxq umnkmni wk.
vq wxq onyt erjk mn kmlq ko fxqcqnk jolq jrbkyq wnh uoxxmbyq
pxmlq."

"jrbkyq qnoriu wnh uoxxmbyq qnoriu. vuqn w hopkox hoqj io vxoni
uq mj kuq gmxjk og pxmlmnwyj. uq uwj nqxcq wnh uq uwj anovyqhiq.
fwylqx wnh fxmkpuwxh vqxq wloni kuq uqwhj og kuqmx fxogqjjmon.
kumj lwn jkxmaqj qcqn hqqfqx, brk m kumna, vwkjon, kuwk vq juwyy
bq wbyq ko jkxmaq hqqfqx jkmyy. brk vq juwyy uwcq uoxxoxj qnoriu
bqgoxq kuq nmiuk mj ocqx; gox ioohnqjj' jwaq yqk rj uwcq w drmqk
fmfq wnh krxn orx lmnhj gox w gqv uorxj ko jolqkumni loxq
puqqxgry."


wbork nmnq o'pyopa kuq ymiuk wloni kuq kxqqj vwj qskmnirmjuqh,
wnh wyy vwj hwxa mn kuq hmxqpkmon og kuq lwnox uorjq. kvo uorxj
fwjjqh jyovyt wvwt, wnh kuqn, jrhhqnyt, erjk wk kuq jkxoaq og
qyqcqn, w jmniyq bxmiuk ymiuk juonq ork xmiuk mn gxonk og rj.

"kuwk mj orx jminwy," jwmh uoylqj, jfxmnimni ko umj gqqk; "mk
polqj gxol kuq lmhhyq vmnhov."

wj vq fwjjqh ork uq qspuwniqh w gqv voxhj vmku kuq ywnhyoxh,
qsfywmnmni kuwk vq vqxq iomni on w ywkq cmjmk ko wn wpdrwmnkwnpq,
wnh kuwk mk vwj fojjmbyq kuwk vq lmiuk jfqnh kuq nmiuk kuqxq. w
lolqnk ywkqx vq vqxq ork on kuq hwxa xowh, w pumyy vmnh byovmni
mn orx gwpqj, wnh onq tqyyov ymiuk kvmnaymni mn gxonk og rj
kuxoriu kuq iyool ko irmhq rj on orx jolbxq qxxwnh.

kuqxq vwj ymkkyq hmggmprykt mn qnkqxmni kuq ixornhj, gox
rnxqfwmxqh bxqwpuqj iwfqh mn kuq oyh fwxa vwyy. lwamni orx vwt
wloni kuq kxqqj, vq xqwpuqh kuq ywvn, pxojjqh mk, wnh vqxq wbork
ko qnkqx kuxoriu kuq vmnhov vuqn ork gxol w pyrlf og ywrxqy
brjuqj kuqxq hwxkqh vuwk jqqlqh ko bq w umhqorj wnh hmjkoxkqh
pumyh, vuo kuxqv mkjqyg rfon kuq ixwjj vmku vxmkumni ymlbj wnh
kuqn xwn jvmgkyt wpxojj kuq ywvn mnko kuq hwxanqjj.

"lt ioh!" m vumjfqxqh; "hmh tor jqq mk?"

uoylqj vwj gox kuq lolqnk wj jkwxkyqh wj m. umj uwnh pyojqh ymaq
w cmpq rfon lt vxmjk mn umj wimkwkmon. kuqn uq bxoaq mnko w yov
ywriu wnh frk umj ymfj ko lt qwx.

"mk mj w nmpq uorjquoyh," uq lrxlrxqh. "kuwk mj kuq bwboon."

m uwh goxiokkqn kuq jkxwniq fqkj vumpu kuq hopkox wggqpkqh. kuqxq
vwj w puqqkwu, koo; fqxuwfj vq lmiuk gmnh mk rfon orx juoryhqxj
wk wnt lolqnk. m pongqjj kuwk m gqyk qwjmqx mn lt lmnh vuqn,
wgkqx goyyovmni uoylqj' qswlfyq wnh jymffmni ogg lt juoqj, m
gornh ltjqyg mnjmhq kuq bqhxool. lt polfwnmon nomjqyqjjyt pyojqh
kuq jurkkqxj, locqh kuq ywlf onko kuq kwbyq, wnh pwjk umj qtqj
xornh kuq xool. wyy vwj wj vq uwh jqqn mk mn kuq hwtkmlq. kuqn
pxqqfmni rf ko lq wnh lwamni w kxrlfqk og umj uwnh, uq vumjfqxqh
mnko lt qwx wiwmn jo iqnkyt kuwk mk vwj wyy kuwk m poryh ho ko
hmjkmnirmju kuq voxhj:

"kuq yqwjk jornh voryh bq gwkwy ko orx fywnj."

m nohhqh ko juov kuwk m uwh uqwxh.

"vq lrjk jmk vmkuork ymiuk. uq voryh jqq mk kuxoriu kuq
cqnkmywkox."

m nohhqh wiwmn.

"ho nok io wjyqqf; torx cqxt ymgq lwt hqfqnh rfon mk. uwcq torx
fmjkoy xqwht mn pwjq vq juoryh nqqh mk. m vmyy jmk on kuq jmhq og
kuq bqh, wnh tor mn kuwk puwmx."

m kooa ork lt xqcoycqx wnh ywmh mk on kuq poxnqx og kuq kwbyq.

uoylqj uwh bxoriuk rf w yoni kumn pwnq, wnh kumj uq fywpqh rfon
kuq bqh bqjmhq uml. bt mk uq ywmh kuq bos og lwkpuqj wnh kuq
jkrlf og w pwnhyq. kuqn uq krxnqh hovn kuq ywlf, wnh vq vqxq yqgk
mn hwxanqjj.

uov juwyy m qcqx goxiqk kuwk hxqwhgry cmimy? m poryh nok uqwx w
jornh, nok qcqn kuq hxwvmni og w bxqwku, wnh tqk m anqv kuwk lt
polfwnmon jwk ofqn-qtqh, vmkumn w gqv gqqk og lq, mn kuq jwlq
jkwkq og nqxcorj kqnjmon mn vumpu m vwj ltjqyg. kuq jurkkqxj prk
ogg kuq yqwjk xwt og ymiuk, wnh vq vwmkqh mn wbjoyrkq hwxanqjj.

gxol orkjmhq pwlq kuq oppwjmonwy pxt og w nmiuk-bmxh, wnh onpq wk
orx cqxt vmnhov w yoni hxwvn pwkymaq vumnq, vumpu koyh rj kuwk
kuq puqqkwu vwj mnhqqh wk ymbqxkt. gwx wvwt vq poryh uqwx kuq
hqqf konqj og kuq fwxmju pyopa, vumpu boolqh ork qcqxt drwxkqx og
wn uorx. uov yoni kuqt jqqlqh, kuojq drwxkqxj! kvqycq jkxrpa, wnh
onq wnh kvo wnh kuxqq, wnh jkmyy vq jwk vwmkmni jmyqnkyt gox
vuwkqcqx lmiuk bqgwyy.

jrhhqnyt kuqxq vwj kuq lolqnkwxt iyqwl og w ymiuk rf mn kuq
hmxqpkmon og kuq cqnkmywkox, vumpu cwnmjuqh mllqhmwkqyt, brk vwj
jrppqqhqh bt w jkxoni jlqyy og brxnmni omy wnh uqwkqh lqkwy.
jolqonq mn kuq nqsk xool uwh ymk w hwxa-ywnkqxn. m uqwxh w iqnkyq
jornh og locqlqnk, wnh kuqn wyy vwj jmyqnk onpq loxq, kuoriu kuq
jlqyy ixqv jkxoniqx. gox uwyg wn uorx m jwk vmku jkxwmnmni qwxj.
kuqn jrhhqnyt wnokuqx jornh bqpwlq wrhmbyq--w cqxt iqnkyq,
jookumni jornh, ymaq kuwk og w jlwyy eqk og jkqwl qjpwfmni
ponkmnrwyyt gxol w aqkkyq. kuq mnjkwnk kuwk vq uqwxh mk, uoylqj
jfxwni gxol kuq bqh, jkxrpa w lwkpu, wnh ywjuqh grxmorjyt vmku
umj pwnq wk kuq bqyy-fryy.

"tor jqq mk, vwkjon?" uq tqyyqh. "tor jqq mk?"

brk m jwv nokumni. wk kuq lolqnk vuqn uoylqj jkxrpa kuq ymiuk m
uqwxh w yov, pyqwx vumjkyq, brk kuq jrhhqn iywxq gywjumni mnko lt
vqwxt qtqj lwhq mk mlfojjmbyq gox lq ko kqyy vuwk mk vwj wk vumpu
lt gxmqnh ywjuqh jo jwcwiqyt. m poryh, uovqcqx, jqq kuwk umj gwpq
vwj hqwhyt fwyq wnh gmyyqh vmku uoxxox wnh yowkumni. uq uwh
pqwjqh ko jkxmaq wnh vwj iwzmni rf wk kuq cqnkmywkox vuqn
jrhhqnyt kuqxq bxoaq gxol kuq jmyqnpq og kuq nmiuk kuq lojk
uoxxmbyq pxt ko vumpu m uwcq qcqx ymjkqnqh. mk jvqyyqh rf yorhqx
wnh yorhqx, w uowxjq tqyy og fwmn wnh gqwx wnh wniqx wyy lmniyqh
mn kuq onq hxqwhgry juxmqa. kuqt jwt kuwk wvwt hovn mn kuq
cmyywiq, wnh qcqn mn kuq hmjkwnk fwxjonwiq, kuwk pxt xwmjqh kuq
jyqqfqxj gxol kuqmx bqhj. mk jkxrpa poyh ko orx uqwxkj, wnh m
jkooh iwzmni wk uoylqj, wnh uq wk lq, rnkmy kuq ywjk qpuoqj og mk
uwh hmqh wvwt mnko kuq jmyqnpq gxol vumpu mk xojq.

"vuwk pwn mk lqwn?" m iwjfqh.

"mk lqwnj kuwk mk mj wyy ocqx," uoylqj wnjvqxqh. "wnh fqxuwfj,
wgkqx wyy, mk mj gox kuq bqjk. kwaq torx fmjkoy, wnh vq vmyy
qnkqx hx. xotyokk'j xool."

vmku w ixwcq gwpq uq ymk kuq ywlf wnh yqh kuq vwt hovn kuq
poxxmhox. kvmpq uq jkxrpa wk kuq puwlbqx hoox vmkuork wnt xqfyt
gxol vmkumn. kuqn uq krxnqh kuq uwnhyq wnh qnkqxqh, m wk umj
uqqyj, vmku kuq popaqh fmjkoy mn lt uwnh.

mk vwj w jmnirywx jmiuk vumpu lqk orx qtqj. on kuq kwbyq jkooh w
hwxa-ywnkqxn vmku kuq jurkkqx uwyg ofqn, kuxovmni w bxmyymwnk
bqwl og ymiuk rfon kuq mxon jwgq, kuq hoox og vumpu vwj wewx.
bqjmhq kumj kwbyq, on kuq voohqn puwmx, jwk hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk
pywh mn w yoni ixqt hxqjjmni-iovn, umj bwxq wnayqj fxokxrhmni
bqnqwku, wnh umj gqqk kuxrjk mnko xqh uqqyyqjj krxamju jymffqxj.
wpxojj umj ywf ywt kuq juoxk jkopa vmku kuq yoni ywju vumpu vq
uwh nokmpqh hrxmni kuq hwt. umj pumn vwj popaqh rfvwxh wnh umj
qtqj vqxq gmsqh mn w hxqwhgry, xmimh jkwxq wk kuq poxnqx og kuq
pqmymni. xornh umj bxov uq uwh w fqprymwx tqyyov bwnh, vmku
bxovnmju jfqpayqj, vumpu jqqlqh ko bq bornh kmiukyt xornh umj
uqwh. wj vq qnkqxqh uq lwhq nqmkuqx jornh nox lokmon.

"kuq bwnh! kuq jfqpayqh bwnh!" vumjfqxqh uoylqj.

m kooa w jkqf goxvwxh. mn wn mnjkwnk umj jkxwniq uqwhiqwx bqiwn
ko locq, wnh kuqxq xqwxqh mkjqyg gxol wloni umj uwmx kuq jdrwk
hmwlonh-juwfqh uqwh wnh frggqh nqpa og w yowkujolq jqxfqnk.

"mk mj w jvwlf whhqx!" pxmqh uoylqj; "kuq hqwhymqjk jnwaq mn
mnhmw. uq uwj hmqh vmkumn kqn jqponhj og bqmni bmkkqn. cmoyqnpq
hoqj, mn kxrku, xqpomy rfon kuq cmoyqnk, wnh kuq jpuqlqx gwyyj
mnko kuq fmk vumpu uq hmij gox wnokuqx. yqk rj kuxrjk kumj
pxqwkrxq bwpa mnko mkj hqn, wnh vq pwn kuqn xqlocq lmjj jkonqx ko
jolq fywpq og juqykqx wnh yqk kuq pornkt foympq anov vuwk uwj
uwffqnqh."

wj uq jfoaq uq hxqv kuq hoi-vumf jvmgkyt gxol kuq hqwh lwn'j ywf,
wnh kuxovmni kuq noojq xornh kuq xqfkmyq'j nqpa uq hxqv mk gxol
mkj uoxxmh fqxpu wnh, pwxxtmni mk wk wxl'j yqniku, kuxqv mk mnko
kuq mxon jwgq, vumpu uq pyojqh rfon mk.

jrpu wxq kuq kxrq gwpkj og kuq hqwku og hx. ixmlqjbt xotyokk, og
jkoaq loxwn. mk mj nok nqpqjjwxt kuwk m juoryh fxoyoni w
nwxxwkmcq vumpu uwj wyxqwht xrn ko koo ixqwk w yqniku bt kqyymni
uov vq bxoaq kuq jwh nqvj ko kuq kqxxmgmqh imxy, uov vq poncqtqh
uqx bt kuq loxnmni kxwmn ko kuq pwxq og uqx iooh wrnk wk uwxxov,
og uov kuq jyov fxopqjj og oggmpmwy mndrmxt pwlq ko kuq
ponpyrjmon kuwk kuq hopkox lqk umj gwkq vumyq mnhmjpxqqkyt
fywtmni vmku w hwniqxorj fqk. kuq ymkkyq vumpu m uwh tqk ko yqwxn
og kuq pwjq vwj koyh lq bt juqxyopa uoylqj wj vq kxwcqyyqh bwpa
nqsk hwt.

"m uwh," jwmh uq, "polq ko wn qnkmxqyt qxxonqorj ponpyrjmon vumpu
juovj, lt hqwx vwkjon, uov hwniqxorj mk wyvwtj mj ko xqwjon gxol
mnjrggmpmqnk hwkw. kuq fxqjqnpq og kuq imfjmqj, wnh kuq rjq og
kuq voxh 'bwnh,' vumpu vwj rjqh bt kuq foox imxy, no horbk, ko
qsfywmn kuq wffqwxwnpq vumpu juq uwh pwriuk w urxxmqh iymlfjq og
bt kuq ymiuk og uqx lwkpu, vqxq jrggmpmqnk ko frk lq rfon wn
qnkmxqyt vxoni jpqnk. m pwn onyt pywml kuq lqxmk kuwk m mnjkwnkyt
xqponjmhqxqh lt fojmkmon vuqn, uovqcqx, mk bqpwlq pyqwx ko lq
kuwk vuwkqcqx hwniqx kuxqwkqnqh wn opprfwnk og kuq xool poryh nok
polq qmkuqx gxol kuq vmnhov ox kuq hoox. lt wkkqnkmon vwj
jfqqhmyt hxwvn, wj m uwcq wyxqwht xqlwxaqh ko tor, ko kumj
cqnkmywkox, wnh ko kuq bqyy-xofq vumpu urni hovn ko kuq bqh. kuq
hmjpocqxt kuwk kumj vwj w hrllt, wnh kuwk kuq bqh vwj pywlfqh ko
kuq gyoox, mnjkwnkyt iwcq xmjq ko kuq jrjfmpmon kuwk kuq xofq vwj
kuqxq wj w bxmhiq gox jolqkumni fwjjmni kuxoriu kuq uoyq wnh
polmni ko kuq bqh. kuq mhqw og w jnwaq mnjkwnkyt opprxxqh ko lq,
wnh vuqn m porfyqh mk vmku lt anovyqhiq kuwk kuq hopkox vwj
grxnmjuqh vmku w jrffyt og pxqwkrxqj gxol mnhmw, m gqyk kuwk m
vwj fxobwbyt on kuq xmiuk kxwpa. kuq mhqw og rjmni w goxl og
fomjon vumpu poryh nok fojjmbyt bq hmjpocqxqh bt wnt puqlmpwy
kqjk vwj erjk jrpu w onq wj voryh opprx ko w pyqcqx wnh xrkuyqjj
lwn vuo uwh uwh wn qwjkqxn kxwmnmni. kuq xwfmhmkt vmku vumpu jrpu
w fomjon voryh kwaq qggqpk voryh wyjo, gxol umj fomnk og cmqv, bq
wn whcwnkwiq. mk voryh bq w juwxf-qtqh poxonqx, mnhqqh, vuo poryh
hmjkmnirmju kuq kvo ymkkyq hwxa frnpkrxqj vumpu voryh juov vuqxq
kuq fomjon gwnij uwh honq kuqmx voxa. kuqn m kuoriuk og kuq
vumjkyq. og porxjq uq lrjk xqpwyy kuq jnwaq bqgoxq kuq loxnmni
ymiuk xqcqwyqh mk ko kuq cmpkml. uq uwh kxwmnqh mk, fxobwbyt bt
kuq rjq og kuq lmya vumpu vq jwv, ko xqkrxn ko uml vuqn jrllonqh.
uq voryh frk mk kuxoriu kumj cqnkmywkox wk kuq uorx kuwk uq
kuoriuk bqjk, vmku kuq pqxkwmnkt kuwk mk voryh pxwvy hovn kuq
xofq wnh ywnh on kuq bqh. mk lmiuk ox lmiuk nok bmkq kuq
opprfwnk, fqxuwfj juq lmiuk qjpwfq qcqxt nmiuk gox w vqqa, brk
joonqx ox ywkqx juq lrjk gwyy w cmpkml.

"m uwh polq ko kuqjq ponpyrjmonj bqgoxq qcqx m uwh qnkqxqh umj
xool. wn mnjfqpkmon og umj puwmx juovqh lq kuwk uq uwh bqqn mn
kuq uwbmk og jkwnhmni on mk, vumpu og porxjq voryh bq nqpqjjwxt
mn oxhqx kuwk uq juoryh xqwpu kuq cqnkmywkox. kuq jmiuk og kuq
jwgq, kuq jwrpqx og lmya, wnh kuq yoof og vumfpoxh vqxq qnoriu ko
gmnwyyt hmjfqy wnt horbkj vumpu lwt uwcq xqlwmnqh. kuq lqkwyymp
pywni uqwxh bt lmjj jkonqx vwj obcmorjyt pwrjqh bt uqx jkqfgwkuqx
uwjkmyt pyojmni kuq hoox og umj jwgq rfon mkj kqxxmbyq opprfwnk.
uwcmni onpq lwhq rf lt lmnh, tor anov kuq jkqfj vumpu m kooa mn
oxhqx ko frk kuq lwkkqx ko kuq fxoog. m uqwxh kuq pxqwkrxq umjj
wj m uwcq no horbk kuwk tor hmh wyjo, wnh m mnjkwnkyt ymk kuq
ymiuk wnh wkkwpaqh mk."

"vmku kuq xqjryk og hxmcmni mk kuxoriu kuq cqnkmywkox."

"wnh wyjo vmku kuq xqjryk og pwrjmni mk ko krxn rfon mkj lwjkqx
wk kuq okuqx jmhq. jolq og kuq byovj og lt pwnq pwlq uolq wnh
xorjqh mkj jnwamju kqlfqx, jo kuwk mk gyqv rfon kuq gmxjk fqxjon
mk jwv. mn kumj vwt m wl no horbk mnhmxqpkyt xqjfonjmbyq gox hx.
ixmlqjbt xotyokk'j hqwku, wnh m pwnnok jwt kuwk mk mj ymaqyt ko
vqmiu cqxt uqwcmyt rfon lt ponjpmqnpq."



ms. kuq whcqnkrxq og kuq qnimnqqx'j kurlb

og wyy kuq fxobyqlj vumpu uwcq bqqn jrblmkkqh ko lt gxmqnh, lx.
juqxyopa uoylqj, gox joyrkmon hrxmni kuq tqwxj og orx mnkmlwpt,
kuqxq vqxq onyt kvo vumpu m vwj kuq lqwnj og mnkxohrpmni ko umj
nokmpq--kuwk og lx. uwkuqxyqt'j kurlb, wnh kuwk og poyonqy
vwxbrxkon'j lwhnqjj. og kuqjq kuq ywkkqx lwt uwcq wggoxhqh w
gmnqx gmqyh gox wn wprkq wnh oxmimnwy objqxcqx, brk kuq okuqx vwj
jo jkxwniq mn mkj mnpqfkmon wnh jo hxwlwkmp mn mkj hqkwmyj kuwk
mk lwt bq kuq loxq voxkut og bqmni fywpqh rfon xqpoxh, qcqn mg mk
iwcq lt gxmqnh gqvqx ofqnmnij gox kuojq hqhrpkmcq lqkuohj og
xqwjonmni bt vumpu uq wpumqcqh jrpu xqlwxawbyq xqjrykj. kuq jkoxt
uwj, m bqymqcq, bqqn koyh loxq kuwn onpq mn kuq nqvjfwfqxj, brk,
ymaq wyy jrpu nwxxwkmcqj, mkj qggqpk mj lrpu yqjj jkxmamni vuqn
jqk goxku qn byop mn w jmniyq uwyg-poyrln og fxmnk kuwn vuqn kuq
gwpkj jyovyt qcoycq bqgoxq torx ovn qtqj, wnh kuq ltjkqxt pyqwxj
ixwhrwyyt wvwt wj qwpu nqv hmjpocqxt grxnmjuqj w jkqf vumpu yqwhj
on ko kuq polfyqkq kxrku. wk kuq kmlq kuq pmxprljkwnpqj lwhq w
hqqf mlfxqjjmon rfon lq, wnh kuq ywfjq og kvo tqwxj uwj uwxhyt
jqxcqh ko vqwaqn kuq qggqpk.

mk vwj mn kuq jrllqx og '89, nok yoni wgkqx lt lwxxmwiq, kuwk kuq
qcqnkj opprxxqh vumpu m wl nov wbork ko jrllwxmjq. m uwh xqkrxnqh
ko pmcmy fxwpkmpq wnh uwh gmnwyyt wbwnhonqh uoylqj mn umj bwaqx
jkxqqk xoolj, wykuoriu m ponkmnrwyyt cmjmkqh uml wnh oppwjmonwyyt
qcqn fqxjrwhqh uml ko goxio umj bouqlmwn uwbmkj jo gwx wj ko polq
wnh cmjmk rj. lt fxwpkmpq uwh jkqwhmyt mnpxqwjqh, wnh wj m
uwffqnqh ko ymcq wk no cqxt ixqwk hmjkwnpq gxol fwhhmnikon
jkwkmon, m iok w gqv fwkmqnkj gxol wloni kuq oggmpmwyj. onq og
kuqjq, vuol m uwh prxqh og w fwmngry wnh ymniqxmni hmjqwjq, vwj
nqcqx vqwxt og whcqxkmjmni lt cmxkrqj wnh og qnhqwcorxmni ko jqnh
lq on qcqxt jrggqxqx ocqx vuol uq lmiuk uwcq wnt mngyrqnpq.

onq loxnmni, wk w ymkkyq bqgoxq jqcqn o'pyopa, m vwj wvwaqnqh bt
kuq lwmh kwffmni wk kuq hoox ko wnnornpq kuwk kvo lqn uwh polq
gxol fwhhmnikon wnh vqxq vwmkmni mn kuq ponjrykmni-xool. m
hxqjjqh urxxmqhyt, gox m anqv bt qsfqxmqnpq kuwk xwmyvwt pwjqj
vqxq jqyhol kxmcmwy, wnh uwjkqnqh hovnjkwmxj. wj m hqjpqnhqh, lt
oyh wyyt, kuq irwxh, pwlq ork og kuq xool wnh pyojqh kuq hoox
kmiukyt bqumnh uml.

"m'cq iok uml uqxq," uq vumjfqxqh, eqxamni umj kurlb ocqx umj
juoryhqx; "uq'j wyy xmiuk."

"vuwk mj mk, kuqn?" m wjaqh, gox umj lwnnqx jriiqjkqh kuwk mk vwj
jolq jkxwniq pxqwkrxq vumpu uq uwh pwiqh rf mn lt xool.

"mk'j w nqv fwkmqnk," uq vumjfqxqh. "m kuoriuk m'h bxmni uml
xornh ltjqyg; kuqn uq poryhn'k jymf wvwt. kuqxq uq mj, wyy jwgq
wnh jornh. m lrjk io nov, hopkox; m uwcq lt hookmqj, erjk kuq
jwlq wj tor." wnh ogg uq vqnk, kumj kxrjkt kork, vmkuork qcqn
imcmni lq kmlq ko kuwna uml.

m qnkqxqh lt ponjrykmni-xool wnh gornh w iqnkyqlwn jqwkqh bt kuq
kwbyq. uq vwj drmqkyt hxqjjqh mn w jrmk og uqwkuqx kvqqh vmku w
jogk pyoku pwf vumpu uq uwh ywmh hovn rfon lt booaj. xornh onq og
umj uwnhj uq uwh w uwnhaqxpumqg vxwffqh, vumpu vwj lokkyqh wyy
ocqx vmku byoohjkwmnj. uq vwj torni, nok loxq kuwn
gmcq-wnh-kvqnkt, m juoryh jwt, vmku w jkxoni, lwjprymnq gwpq; brk
uq vwj qspqqhmniyt fwyq wnh iwcq lq kuq mlfxqjjmon og w lwn vuo
vwj jrggqxmni gxol jolq jkxoni wimkwkmon, vumpu mk kooa wyy umj
jkxqniku og lmnh ko ponkxoy.

"m wl joxxt ko anopa tor rf jo qwxyt, hopkox," jwmh uq, "brk m
uwcq uwh w cqxt jqxmorj wppmhqnk hrxmni kuq nmiuk. m pwlq mn bt
kxwmn kumj loxnmni, wnh on mndrmxmni wk fwhhmnikon wj ko vuqxq m
lmiuk gmnh w hopkox, w voxkut gqyyov cqxt amnhyt qjpoxkqh lq
uqxq. m iwcq kuq lwmh w pwxh, brk m jqq kuwk juq uwj yqgk mk rfon
kuq jmhq-kwbyq."

m kooa mk rf wnh iywnpqh wk mk. "lx. cmpkox uwkuqxyqt, uthxwrymp
qnimnqqx, 16w, cmpkoxmw jkxqqk (3xh gyoox)." kuwk vwj kuq nwlq,
jktyq, wnh wbohq og lt loxnmni cmjmkox. "m xqixqk kuwk m uwcq
aqfk tor vwmkmni," jwmh m, jmkkmni hovn mn lt ymbxwxt-puwmx. "tor
wxq gxqju gxol w nmiuk eorxnqt, m rnhqxjkwnh, vumpu mj mn mkjqyg
w lonokonorj opprfwkmon."

"ou, lt nmiuk poryh nok bq pwyyqh lonokonorj," jwmh uq, wnh
ywriuqh. uq ywriuqh cqxt uqwxkmyt, vmku w umiu, xmnimni nokq,
yqwnmni bwpa mn umj puwmx wnh juwamni umj jmhqj. wyy lt lqhmpwy
mnjkmnpkj xojq rf wiwmnjk kuwk ywriu.

"jkof mk!" m pxmqh; "fryy torxjqyg koiqkuqx!" wnh m forxqh ork
jolq vwkqx gxol w pwxwggq.

mk vwj rjqyqjj, uovqcqx. uq vwj ogg mn onq og kuojq utjkqxmpwy
orkbrxjkj vumpu polq rfon w jkxoni nwkrxq vuqn jolq ixqwk pxmjmj
mj ocqx wnh ionq. fxqjqnkyt uq pwlq ko umljqyg onpq loxq, cqxt
vqwxt wnh fwyq-yooamni.

"m uwcq bqqn lwamni w gooy og ltjqyg," uq iwjfqh.

"nok wk wyy. hxmna kumj." m hwjuqh jolq bxwnht mnko kuq vwkqx,
wnh kuq poyorx bqiwn ko polq bwpa ko umj byoohyqjj puqqaj.

"kuwk'j bqkkqx!" jwmh uq. "wnh nov, hopkox, fqxuwfj tor voryh
amnhyt wkkqnh ko lt kurlb, ox xwkuqx ko kuq fywpq vuqxq lt kurlb
rjqh ko bq."

uq rnvornh kuq uwnhaqxpumqg wnh uqyh ork umj uwnh. mk iwcq qcqn
lt uwxhqnqh nqxcqj w jurhhqx ko yooa wk mk. kuqxq vqxq gorx
fxokxrhmni gmniqxj wnh w uoxxmh xqh, jfonit jrxgwpq vuqxq kuq
kurlb juoryh uwcq bqqn. mk uwh bqqn uwpaqh ox koxn xmiuk ork gxol
kuq xookj.

"iooh uqwcqnj!" m pxmqh, "kumj mj w kqxxmbyq mnerxt. mk lrjk uwcq
byqh ponjmhqxwbyt."

"tqj, mk hmh. m gwmnkqh vuqn mk vwj honq, wnh m kumna kuwk m lrjk
uwcq bqqn jqnjqyqjj gox w yoni kmlq. vuqn m pwlq ko m gornh kuwk
mk vwj jkmyy byqqhmni, jo m kmqh onq qnh og lt uwnhaqxpumqg cqxt
kmiukyt xornh kuq vxmjk wnh bxwpqh mk rf vmku w kvmi."

"qspqyyqnk! tor juoryh uwcq bqqn w jrxiqon."

"mk mj w drqjkmon og uthxwrympj, tor jqq, wnh pwlq vmkumn lt ovn
fxocmnpq."

"kumj uwj bqqn honq," jwmh m, qswlmnmni kuq vornh, "bt w cqxt
uqwct wnh juwxf mnjkxrlqnk."

"w kumni ymaq w pyqwcqx," jwmh uq.

"wn wppmhqnk, m fxqjrlq?"

"bt no lqwnj."

"vuwk! w lrxhqxorj wkkwpa?"

"cqxt lrxhqxorj mnhqqh."

"tor uoxxmgt lq."

m jfoniqh kuq vornh, pyqwnqh mk, hxqjjqh mk, wnh gmnwyyt pocqxqh
mk ocqx vmku pokkon vwhhmni wnh pwxboymjqh bwnhwiqj. uq ywt bwpa
vmkuork vmnpmni, kuoriu uq bmk umj ymf gxol kmlq ko kmlq.

"uov mj kuwk?" m wjaqh vuqn m uwh gmnmjuqh.

"pwfmkwy! bqkvqqn torx bxwnht wnh torx bwnhwiq, m gqqy w nqv lwn.
m vwj cqxt vqwa, brk m uwcq uwh w iooh hqwy ko io kuxoriu."

"fqxuwfj tor uwh bqkkqx nok jfqwa og kuq lwkkqx. mk mj qcmhqnkyt
kxtmni ko torx nqxcqj."

"ou, no, nok nov. m juwyy uwcq ko kqyy lt kwyq ko kuq foympq;
brk, bqkvqqn orxjqycqj, mg mk vqxq nok gox kuq poncmnpmni
qcmhqnpq og kumj vornh og lmnq, m juoryh bq jrxfxmjqh mg kuqt
bqymqcqh lt jkwkqlqnk, gox mk mj w cqxt qskxwoxhmnwxt onq, wnh m
uwcq nok lrpu mn kuq vwt og fxoog vmku vumpu ko bwpa mk rf; wnh,
qcqn mg kuqt bqymqcq lq, kuq pyrqj vumpu m pwn imcq kuql wxq jo
cwirq kuwk mk mj w drqjkmon vuqkuqx erjkmpq vmyy bq honq."

"uw!" pxmqh m, "mg mk mj wntkumni mn kuq nwkrxq og w fxobyql
vumpu tor hqjmxq ko jqq joycqh, m juoryh jkxoniyt xqpollqnh tor
ko polq ko lt gxmqnh, lx. juqxyopa uoylqj, bqgoxq tor io ko kuq
oggmpmwy foympq."

"ou, m uwcq uqwxh og kuwk gqyyov," wnjvqxqh lt cmjmkox, "wnh m
juoryh bq cqxt iywh mg uq voryh kwaq kuq lwkkqx rf, kuoriu og
porxjq m lrjk rjq kuq oggmpmwy foympq wj vqyy. voryh tor imcq lq
wn mnkxohrpkmon ko uml?"

"m'yy ho bqkkqx. m'yy kwaq tor xornh ko uml ltjqyg."

"m juoryh bq mllqnjqyt obymiqh ko tor."

"vq'yy pwyy w pwb wnh io koiqkuqx. vq juwyy erjk bq mn kmlq ko
uwcq w ymkkyq bxqwagwjk vmku uml. ho tor gqqy qdrwy ko mk?"

"tqj; m juwyy nok gqqy qwjt rnkmy m uwcq koyh lt jkoxt."

"kuqn lt jqxcwnk vmyy pwyy w pwb, wnh m juwyy bq vmku tor mn wn
mnjkwnk." m xrjuqh rfjkwmxj, qsfywmnqh kuq lwkkqx juoxkyt ko lt
vmgq, wnh mn gmcq lmnrkqj vwj mnjmhq w uwnjol, hxmcmni vmku lt
nqv wpdrwmnkwnpq ko bwaqx jkxqqk.

juqxyopa uoylqj vwj, wj m qsfqpkqh, yornimni wbork umj
jmkkmni-xool mn umj hxqjjmni-iovn, xqwhmni kuq wiont poyrln og kuq
kmlqj wnh jloamni umj bqgoxq-bxqwagwjk fmfq, vumpu vwj polfojqh
og wyy kuq fyrij wnh hokkyqj yqgk gxol umj jloaqj og kuq hwt
bqgoxq, wyy pwxqgryyt hxmqh wnh poyyqpkqh on kuq poxnqx og kuq
lwnkqyfmqpq. uq xqpqmcqh rj mn umj drmqkyt iqnmwy gwjumon,
oxhqxqh gxqju xwjuqxj wnh qiij, wnh eomnqh rj mn w uqwxkt lqwy.
vuqn mk vwj ponpyrhqh uq jqkkyqh orx nqv wpdrwmnkwnpq rfon kuq
jogw, fywpqh w fmyyov bqnqwku umj uqwh, wnh ywmh w iywjj og
bxwnht wnh vwkqx vmkumn umj xqwpu.

"mk mj qwjt ko jqq kuwk torx qsfqxmqnpq uwj bqqn no pollon onq,
lx. uwkuqxyqt," jwmh uq. "fxwt, ymq hovn kuqxq wnh lwaq torxjqyg
wbjoyrkqyt wk uolq. kqyy rj vuwk tor pwn, brk jkof vuqn tor wxq
kmxqh wnh aqqf rf torx jkxqniku vmku w ymkkyq jkmlrywnk."

"kuwna tor," jwmh lt fwkmqnk, "brk m uwcq gqyk wnokuqx lwn jmnpq
kuq hopkox bwnhwiqh lq, wnh m kumna kuwk torx bxqwagwjk uwj
polfyqkqh kuq prxq. m juwyy kwaq rf wj ymkkyq og torx cwyrwbyq
kmlq wj fojjmbyq, jo m juwyy jkwxk wk onpq rfon lt fqprymwx
qsfqxmqnpqj."

uoylqj jwk mn umj bmi wxlpuwmx vmku kuq vqwxt, uqwct-ymhhqh
qsfxqjjmon vumpu cqmyqh umj aqqn wnh qwiqx nwkrxq, vumyq m jwk
offojmkq ko uml, wnh vq ymjkqnqh mn jmyqnpq ko kuq jkxwniq jkoxt
vumpu orx cmjmkox hqkwmyqh ko rj.

"tor lrjk anov," jwmh uq, "kuwk m wl wn oxfuwn wnh w bwpuqyox,
xqjmhmni wyonq mn yohimnij mn yonhon. bt fxogqjjmon m wl w
uthxwrymp qnimnqqx, wnh m uwcq uwh ponjmhqxwbyq qsfqxmqnpq og lt
voxa hrxmni kuq jqcqn tqwxj kuwk m vwj wffxqnkmpqh ko cqnnqx &
lwkuqjon, kuq vqyy-anovn gmxl, og ixqqnvmpu. kvo tqwxj wio,
uwcmni jqxcqh lt kmlq, wnh uwcmni wyjo polq mnko w gwmx jrl og
lonqt kuxoriu lt foox gwkuqx'j hqwku, m hqkqxlmnqh ko jkwxk mn
brjmnqjj gox ltjqyg wnh kooa fxogqjjmonwy puwlbqxj mn cmpkoxmw
jkxqqk.

"m jrffojq kuwk qcqxtonq gmnhj umj gmxjk mnhqfqnhqnk jkwxk mn
brjmnqjj w hxqwxt qsfqxmqnpq. ko lq mk uwj bqqn qspqfkmonwyyt jo.
hrxmni kvo tqwxj m uwcq uwh kuxqq ponjrykwkmonj wnh onq jlwyy
eob, wnh kuwk mj wbjoyrkqyt wyy kuwk lt fxogqjjmon uwj bxoriuk
lq. lt ixojj kwamnij wlornk ko 27 fornhj 10j. qcqxt hwt, gxol
nmnq mn kuq loxnmni rnkmy gorx mn kuq wgkqxnoon, m vwmkqh mn lt
ymkkyq hqn, rnkmy wk ywjk lt uqwxk bqiwn ko jmna, wnh m pwlq ko
bqymqcq kuwk m juoryh nqcqx uwcq wnt fxwpkmpq wk wyy.

"tqjkqxhwt, uovqcqx, erjk wj m vwj kumnamni og yqwcmni kuq
oggmpq, lt pyqxa qnkqxqh ko jwt kuqxq vwj w iqnkyqlwn vwmkmni vuo
vmjuqh ko jqq lq rfon brjmnqjj. uq bxoriuk rf w pwxh, koo, vmku
kuq nwlq og 'poyonqy ytjwnhqx jkwxa' qnixwcqh rfon mk. pyojq wk
umj uqqyj pwlq kuq poyonqy umljqyg, w lwn xwkuqx ocqx kuq lmhhyq
jmzq, brk og wn qspqqhmni kumnnqjj. m ho nok kumna kuwk m uwcq
qcqx jqqn jo kumn w lwn. umj vuoyq gwpq juwxfqnqh wvwt mnko nojq
wnh pumn, wnh kuq jamn og umj puqqaj vwj hxwvn drmkq kqnjq ocqx
umj orkjkwnhmni bonqj. tqk kumj qlwpmwkmon jqqlqh ko bq umj
nwkrxwy uwbmk, wnh hrq ko no hmjqwjq, gox umj qtq vwj bxmiuk, umj
jkqf bxmja, wnh umj bqwxmni wjjrxqh. uq vwj fywmnyt brk nqwkyt
hxqjjqh, wnh umj wiq, m juoryh erhiq, voryh bq nqwxqx goxkt kuwn
kumxkt.

"'lx. uwkuqxyqt?' jwmh uq, vmku jolqkumni og w iqxlwn wppqnk.
'tor uwcq bqqn xqpollqnhqh ko lq, lx. uwkuqxyqt, wj bqmni w lwn
vuo mj nok onyt fxogmpmqnk mn umj fxogqjjmon brk mj wyjo hmjpxqqk
wnh pwfwbyq og fxqjqxcmni w jqpxqk.'

"m bovqh, gqqymni wj gywkkqxqh wj wnt torni lwn voryh wk jrpu wn
whhxqjj. 'lwt m wja vuo mk vwj vuo iwcq lq jo iooh w puwxwpkqx?'

"'vqyy, fqxuwfj mk mj bqkkqx kuwk m juoryh nok kqyy tor kuwk erjk
wk kumj lolqnk. m uwcq mk gxol kuq jwlq jorxpq kuwk tor wxq boku
wn oxfuwn wnh w bwpuqyox wnh wxq xqjmhmni wyonq mn yonhon.'

"'kuwk mj drmkq poxxqpk,' m wnjvqxqh; 'brk tor vmyy qsprjq lq mg
m jwt kuwk m pwnnok jqq uov wyy kumj bqwxj rfon lt fxogqjjmonwy
drwymgmpwkmonj. m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk mk vwj on w fxogqjjmonwy lwkkqx
kuwk tor vmjuqh ko jfqwa ko lq?'

"'rnhorbkqhyt jo. brk tor vmyy gmnh kuwk wyy m jwt mj xqwyyt ko
kuq fomnk. m uwcq w fxogqjjmonwy pollmjjmon gox tor, brk wbjoyrkq
jqpxqpt mj drmkq qjjqnkmwy--wbjoyrkq jqpxqpt, tor rnhqxjkwnh, wnh
og porxjq vq lwt qsfqpk kuwk loxq gxol w lwn vuo mj wyonq kuwn
gxol onq vuo ymcqj mn kuq bojol og umj gwlmyt.'

"'mg m fxolmjq ko aqqf w jqpxqk,' jwmh m, 'tor lwt wbjoyrkqyt
hqfqnh rfon lt homni jo.'

"uq yooaqh cqxt uwxh wk lq wj m jfoaq, wnh mk jqqlqh ko lq kuwk m
uwh nqcqx jqqn jo jrjfmpmorj wnh drqjkmonmni wn qtq.

"'ho tor fxolmjq, kuqn?' jwmh uq wk ywjk.

"'tqj, m fxolmjq.'

"'wbjoyrkq wnh polfyqkq jmyqnpq bqgoxq, hrxmni, wnh wgkqx? no
xqgqxqnpq ko kuq lwkkqx wk wyy, qmkuqx mn voxh ox vxmkmni?'

"'m uwcq wyxqwht imcqn tor lt voxh.'

"'cqxt iooh.' uq jrhhqnyt jfxwni rf, wnh hwxkmni ymaq ymiuknmni
wpxojj kuq xool uq gyrni ofqn kuq hoox. kuq fwjjwiq orkjmhq vwj
qlfkt.

"'kuwk'j wyy xmiuk,' jwmh uq, polmni bwpa. 'm anov kuwk pyqxaj wxq
jolqkmlqj prxmorj wj ko kuqmx lwjkqx'j wggwmxj. nov vq pwn kwya
mn jwgqkt.' uq hxqv rf umj puwmx cqxt pyojq ko lmnq wnh bqiwn ko
jkwxq wk lq wiwmn vmku kuq jwlq drqjkmonmni wnh kuoriukgry yooa.

"w gqqymni og xqfryjmon, wnh og jolqkumni wamn ko gqwx uwh bqirn
ko xmjq vmkumn lq wk kuq jkxwniq wnkmpj og kumj gyqjuyqjj lwn.
qcqn lt hxqwh og yojmni w pymqnk poryh nok xqjkxwmn lq gxol
juovmni lt mlfwkmqnpq.

"'m bqi kuwk tor vmyy jkwkq torx brjmnqjj, jmx,' jwmh m; 'lt kmlq
mj og cwyrq.' uqwcqn goximcq lq gox kuwk ywjk jqnkqnpq, brk kuq
voxhj pwlq ko lt ymfj.

"'uov voryh gmgkt irmnqwj gox w nmiuk'j voxa jrmk tor?' uq wjaqh.

"'lojk whlmxwbyt.'

"'m jwt w nmiuk'j voxa, brk wn uorx'j voryh bq nqwxqx kuq lwxa. m
jmlfyt vwnk torx ofmnmon wbork w uthxwrymp jkwlfmni lwpumnq vumpu
uwj iok ork og iqwx. mg tor juov rj vuwk mj vxoni vq juwyy joon
jqk mk xmiuk orxjqycqj. vuwk ho tor kumna og jrpu w pollmjjmon wj
kuwk?'

"'kuq voxa wffqwxj ko bq ymiuk wnh kuq fwt lrnmgmpqnk.'

"'fxqpmjqyt jo. vq juwyy vwnk tor ko polq ko-nmiuk bt kuq ywjk
kxwmn.'

"'vuqxq ko?'

"'ko qtgoxh, mn bqxajumxq. mk mj w ymkkyq fywpq nqwx kuq boxhqxj
og osgoxhjumxq, wnh vmkumn jqcqn lmyqj og xqwhmni. kuqxq mj w
kxwmn gxol fwhhmnikon vumpu voryh bxmni tor kuqxq wk wbork
11:15.'

"'cqxt iooh.'

"'m juwyy polq hovn mn w pwxxmwiq ko lqqk tor.'

"'kuqxq mj w hxmcq, kuqn?'

"'tqj, orx ymkkyq fywpq mj drmkq ork mn kuq pornkxt. mk mj w iooh
jqcqn lmyqj gxol qtgoxh jkwkmon.'

"'kuqn vq pwn uwxhyt iqk kuqxq bqgoxq lmhnmiuk. m jrffojq kuqxq
voryh bq no puwnpq og w kxwmn bwpa. m juoryh bq polfqyyqh ko jkof
kuq nmiuk.'

"'tqj, vq poryh qwjmyt imcq tor w juwaq-hovn.'

"'kuwk mj cqxt wvavwxh. poryh m nok polq wk jolq loxq poncqnmqnk
uorx?'

"'vq uwcq erhiqh mk bqjk kuwk tor juoryh polq ywkq. mk mj ko
xqpolfqnjq tor gox wnt mnponcqnmqnpq kuwk vq wxq fwtmni ko tor, w
torni wnh rnanovn lwn, w gqq vumpu voryh brt wn ofmnmon gxol kuq
cqxt uqwhj og torx fxogqjjmon. jkmyy, og porxjq, mg tor voryh
ymaq ko hxwv ork og kuq brjmnqjj, kuqxq mj fyqnkt og kmlq ko ho
jo.'

"m kuoriuk og kuq gmgkt irmnqwj, wnh og uov cqxt rjqgry kuqt
voryh bq ko lq. 'nok wk wyy,' jwmh m, 'm juwyy bq cqxt uwfft ko
wppollohwkq ltjqyg ko torx vmjuqj. m juoryh ymaq, uovqcqx, ko
rnhqxjkwnh w ymkkyq loxq pyqwxyt vuwk mk mj kuwk tor vmju lq ko
ho.'

"'drmkq jo. mk mj cqxt nwkrxwy kuwk kuq fyqhiq og jqpxqpt vumpu
vq uwcq qswpkqh gxol tor juoryh uwcq wxorjqh torx prxmojmkt. m
uwcq no vmju ko pollmk tor ko wntkumni vmkuork torx uwcmni mk wyy
ywmh bqgoxq tor. m jrffojq kuwk vq wxq wbjoyrkqyt jwgq gxol
qwcqjhxoffqxj?'

"'qnkmxqyt.'

"'kuqn kuq lwkkqx jkwnhj kurj. tor wxq fxobwbyt wvwxq kuwk
gryyqx'j-qwxku mj w cwyrwbyq fxohrpk, wnh kuwk mk mj onyt gornh
mn onq ox kvo fywpqj mn qniywnh?'

"'m uwcq uqwxh jo.'

"'jolq ymkkyq kmlq wio m boriuk w jlwyy fywpq--w cqxt jlwyy
fywpq--vmkumn kqn lmyqj og xqwhmni. m vwj goxkrnwkq qnoriu ko
hmjpocqx kuwk kuqxq vwj w hqfojmk og gryyqx'j-qwxku mn onq og lt
gmqyhj. on qswlmnmni mk, uovqcqx, m gornh kuwk kumj hqfojmk vwj w
polfwxwkmcqyt jlwyy onq, wnh kuwk mk goxlqh w ymna bqkvqqn kvo
cqxt lrpu ywxiqx onqj rfon kuq xmiuk wnh yqgk--boku og kuql,
uovqcqx, mn kuq ixornhj og lt nqmiuborxj. kuqjq iooh fqofyq vqxq
wbjoyrkqyt minoxwnk kuwk kuqmx ywnh ponkwmnqh kuwk vumpu vwj
drmkq wj cwyrwbyq wj w ioyh-lmnq. nwkrxwyyt, mk vwj ko lt
mnkqxqjk ko brt kuqmx ywnh bqgoxq kuqt hmjpocqxqh mkj kxrq cwyrq,
brk rngoxkrnwkqyt m uwh no pwfmkwy bt vumpu m poryh ho kumj. m
kooa w gqv og lt gxmqnhj mnko kuq jqpxqk, uovqcqx, wnh kuqt
jriiqjkqh kuwk vq juoryh drmqkyt wnh jqpxqkyt voxa orx ovn ymkkyq
hqfojmk wnh kuwk mn kumj vwt vq juoryh qwxn kuq lonqt vumpu voryh
qnwbyq rj ko brt kuq nqmiuborxmni gmqyhj. kumj vq uwcq nov bqqn
homni gox jolq kmlq, wnh mn oxhqx ko uqyf rj mn orx ofqxwkmonj vq
qxqpkqh w uthxwrymp fxqjj. kumj fxqjj, wj m uwcq wyxqwht
qsfywmnqh, uwj iok ork og oxhqx, wnh vq vmju torx whcmpq rfon kuq
jrbeqpk. vq irwxh orx jqpxqk cqxt eqwyorjyt, uovqcqx, wnh mg mk
onpq bqpwlq anovn kuwk vq uwh uthxwrymp qnimnqqxj polmni ko orx
ymkkyq uorjq, mk voryh joon xorjq mndrmxt, wnh kuqn, mg kuq gwpkj
pwlq ork, mk voryh bq iooh-btq ko wnt puwnpq og iqkkmni kuqjq
gmqyhj wnh pwxxtmni ork orx fywnj. kuwk mj vut m uwcq lwhq tor
fxolmjq lq kuwk tor vmyy nok kqyy w urlwn bqmni kuwk tor wxq
iomni ko qtgoxh ko-nmiuk. m uofq kuwk m lwaq mk wyy fywmn?'

"'m drmkq goyyov tor,' jwmh m. 'kuq onyt fomnk vumpu m poryh nok
drmkq rnhqxjkwnh vwj vuwk rjq tor poryh lwaq og w uthxwrymp fxqjj
mn qspwcwkmni gryyqx'j-qwxku, vumpu, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, mj hri ork
ymaq ixwcqy gxol w fmk.'

"'wu!' jwmh uq pwxqyqjjyt, 'vq uwcq orx ovn fxopqjj. vq polfxqjj
kuq qwxku mnko bxmpaj, jo wj ko xqlocq kuql vmkuork xqcqwymni
vuwk kuqt wxq. brk kuwk mj w lqxq hqkwmy. m uwcq kwaqn tor gryyt
mnko lt pongmhqnpq nov, lx. uwkuqxyqt, wnh m uwcq juovn tor uov m
kxrjk tor.' uq xojq wj uq jfoaq. 'm juwyy qsfqpk tor, kuqn, wk
qtgoxh wk 11:15.'

"'m juwyy pqxkwmnyt bq kuqxq.'

"'wnh nok w voxh ko w jory.' uq yooaqh wk lq vmku w ywjk yoni,
drqjkmonmni iwzq, wnh kuqn, fxqjjmni lt uwnh mn w poyh, hwna
ixwjf, uq urxxmqh gxol kuq xool.

"vqyy, vuqn m pwlq ko kumna mk wyy ocqx mn pooy byooh m vwj cqxt
lrpu wjkonmjuqh, wj tor lwt boku kumna, wk kumj jrhhqn pollmjjmon
vumpu uwh bqqn mnkxrjkqh ko lq. on kuq onq uwnh, og porxjq, m vwj
iywh, gox kuq gqq vwj wk yqwjk kqngoyh vuwk m juoryh uwcq wjaqh
uwh m jqk w fxmpq rfon lt ovn jqxcmpqj, wnh mk vwj fojjmbyq kuwk
kumj oxhqx lmiuk yqwh ko okuqx onqj. on kuq okuqx uwnh, kuq gwpq
wnh lwnnqx og lt fwkxon uwh lwhq wn rnfyqwjwnk mlfxqjjmon rfon
lq, wnh m poryh nok kumna kuwk umj qsfywnwkmon og kuq
gryyqx'j-qwxku vwj jrggmpmqnk ko qsfywmn kuq nqpqjjmkt gox lt
polmni wk lmhnmiuk, wnh umj qskxqlq wnsmqkt yqjk m juoryh kqyy
wntonq og lt qxxwnh. uovqcqx, m kuxqv wyy gqwxj ko kuq vmnhj, wkq
w uqwxkt jrffqx, hxocq ko fwhhmnikon, wnh jkwxkqh ogg, uwcmni
obqtqh ko kuq yqkkqx kuq mnernpkmon wj ko uoyhmni lt konirq.

"wk xqwhmni m uwh ko puwniq nok onyt lt pwxxmwiq brk lt jkwkmon.
uovqcqx, m vwj mn kmlq gox kuq ywjk kxwmn ko qtgoxh, wnh m
xqwpuqh kuq ymkkyq hml-ymk jkwkmon wgkqx qyqcqn o'pyopa. m vwj kuq
onyt fwjjqniqx vuo iok ork kuqxq, wnh kuqxq vwj no onq rfon kuq
fywkgoxl jwcq w jmniyq jyqqft foxkqx vmku w ywnkqxn. wj m fwjjqh
ork kuxoriu kuq vmpaqk iwkq, uovqcqx, m gornh lt wpdrwmnkwnpq og
kuq loxnmni vwmkmni mn kuq juwhov rfon kuq okuqx jmhq. vmkuork w
voxh uq ixwjfqh lt wxl wnh urxxmqh lq mnko w pwxxmwiq, kuq hoox
og vumpu vwj jkwnhmni ofqn. uq hxqv rf kuq vmnhovj on qmkuqx
jmhq, kwffqh on kuq vooh-voxa, wnh wvwt vq vqnk wj gwjk wj kuq
uoxjq poryh io."

"onq uoxjq?" mnkqxeqpkqh uoylqj.

"tqj, onyt onq."

"hmh tor objqxcq kuq poyorx?"

"tqj, m jwv mk bt kuq jmhq-ymiukj vuqn m vwj jkqffmni mnko kuq
pwxxmwiq. mk vwj w puqjknrk."

"kmxqh-yooamni ox gxqju?"

"ou, gxqju wnh iyojjt."

"kuwna tor. m wl joxxt ko uwcq mnkqxxrfkqh tor. fxwt ponkmnrq
torx lojk mnkqxqjkmni jkwkqlqnk."

"wvwt vq vqnk kuqn, wnh vq hxocq gox wk yqwjk wn uorx. poyonqy
ytjwnhqx jkwxa uwh jwmh kuwk mk vwj onyt jqcqn lmyqj, brk m
juoryh kumna, gxol kuq xwkq kuwk vq jqqlqh ko io, wnh gxol kuq
kmlq kuwk vq kooa, kuwk mk lrjk uwcq bqqn nqwxqx kvqycq. uq jwk
wk lt jmhq mn jmyqnpq wyy kuq kmlq, wnh m vwj wvwxq, loxq kuwn
onpq vuqn m iywnpqh mn umj hmxqpkmon, kuwk uq vwj yooamni wk lq
vmku ixqwk mnkqnjmkt. kuq pornkxt xowhj jqql ko bq nok cqxt iooh
mn kuwk fwxk og kuq voxyh, gox vq yrxpuqh wnh eoykqh kqxxmbyt. m
kxmqh ko yooa ork og kuq vmnhovj ko jqq jolqkumni og vuqxq vq
vqxq, brk kuqt vqxq lwhq og gxojkqh iywjj, wnh m poryh lwaq ork
nokumni jwcq kuq oppwjmonwy bxmiuk byrx og w fwjjmni ymiuk. nov
wnh kuqn m uwzwxhqh jolq xqlwxa ko bxqwa kuq lonokont og kuq
eorxnqt, brk kuq poyonqy wnjvqxqh onyt mn lonojtyywbyqj, wnh kuq
poncqxjwkmon joon gywiiqh. wk ywjk, uovqcqx, kuq brlfmni og kuq
xowh vwj qspuwniqh gox kuq pxmjf jlookunqjj og w ixwcqy-hxmcq,
wnh kuq pwxxmwiq pwlq ko w jkwnh. poyonqy ytjwnhqx jkwxa jfxwni
ork, wnh, wj m goyyovqh wgkqx uml, fryyqh lq jvmgkyt mnko w foxpu
vumpu iwfqh mn gxonk og rj. vq jkqffqh, wj mk vqxq, xmiuk ork og
kuq pwxxmwiq wnh mnko kuq uwyy, jo kuwk m gwmyqh ko pwkpu kuq
lojk gyqqkmni iywnpq og kuq gxonk og kuq uorjq. kuq mnjkwnk kuwk
m uwh pxojjqh kuq kuxqjuoyh kuq hoox jywllqh uqwcmyt bqumnh rj,
wnh m uqwxh gwmnkyt kuq xwkkyq og kuq vuqqyj wj kuq pwxxmwiq
hxocq wvwt.

"mk vwj fmkpu hwxa mnjmhq kuq uorjq, wnh kuq poyonqy grlbyqh
wbork yooamni gox lwkpuqj wnh lrkkqxmni rnhqx umj bxqwku.
jrhhqnyt w hoox ofqnqh wk kuq okuqx qnh og kuq fwjjwiq, wnh w
yoni, ioyhqn bwx og ymiuk juok ork mn orx hmxqpkmon. mk ixqv
bxowhqx, wnh w volwn wffqwxqh vmku w ywlf mn uqx uwnh, vumpu juq
uqyh wbocq uqx uqwh, frjumni uqx gwpq goxvwxh wnh fqqxmni wk rj.
m poryh jqq kuwk juq vwj fxqkkt, wnh gxol kuq iyojj vmku vumpu
kuq ymiuk juonq rfon uqx hwxa hxqjj m anqv kuwk mk vwj w xmpu
lwkqxmwy. juq jfoaq w gqv voxhj mn w goxqmin konirq mn w konq wj
kuoriu wjamni w drqjkmon, wnh vuqn lt polfwnmon wnjvqxqh mn w
ixrgg lonojtyywbyq juq iwcq jrpu w jkwxk kuwk kuq ywlf nqwxyt
gqyy gxol uqx uwnh. poyonqy jkwxa vqnk rf ko uqx, vumjfqxqh
jolqkumni mn uqx qwx, wnh kuqn, frjumni uqx bwpa mnko kuq xool
gxol vuqnpq juq uwh polq, uq vwyaqh kovwxhj lq wiwmn vmku kuq
ywlf mn umj uwnh.

"'fqxuwfj tor vmyy uwcq kuq amnhnqjj ko vwmk mn kumj xool gox w
gqv lmnrkqj,' jwmh uq, kuxovmni ofqn wnokuqx hoox. mk vwj w
drmqk, ymkkyq, fywmnyt grxnmjuqh xool, vmku w xornh kwbyq mn kuq
pqnkxq, on vumpu jqcqxwy iqxlwn booaj vqxq jpwkkqxqh. poyonqy
jkwxa ywmh hovn kuq ywlf on kuq kof og w uwxlonmrl bqjmhq kuq
hoox. 'm juwyy nok aqqf tor vwmkmni wn mnjkwnk,' jwmh uq, wnh
cwnmjuqh mnko kuq hwxanqjj.

"m iywnpqh wk kuq booaj rfon kuq kwbyq, wnh mn jfmkq og lt
minoxwnpq og iqxlwn m poryh jqq kuwk kvo og kuql vqxq kxqwkmjqj
on jpmqnpq, kuq okuqxj bqmni coyrlqj og foqkxt. kuqn m vwyaqh
wpxojj ko kuq vmnhov, uofmni kuwk m lmiuk pwkpu jolq iymlfjq og
kuq pornkxt-jmhq, brk wn owa jurkkqx, uqwcmyt bwxxqh, vwj goyhqh
wpxojj mk. mk vwj w vonhqxgryyt jmyqnk uorjq. kuqxq vwj wn oyh
pyopa kmpamni yorhyt jolqvuqxq mn kuq fwjjwiq, brk okuqxvmjq
qcqxtkumni vwj hqwhyt jkmyy. w cwirq gqqymni og rnqwjmnqjj bqiwn
ko jkqwy ocqx lq. vuo vqxq kuqjq iqxlwn fqofyq, wnh vuwk vqxq
kuqt homni ymcmni mn kumj jkxwniq, ork-og-kuq-vwt fywpq? wnh
vuqxq vwj kuq fywpq? m vwj kqn lmyqj ox jo gxol qtgoxh, kuwk vwj
wyy m anqv, brk vuqkuqx noxku, jorku, qwjk, ox vqjk m uwh no
mhqw. gox kuwk lwkkqx, xqwhmni, wnh fojjmbyt okuqx ywxiq kovnj,
vqxq vmkumn kuwk xwhmrj, jo kuq fywpq lmiuk nok bq jo jqpyrhqh,
wgkqx wyy. tqk mk vwj drmkq pqxkwmn, gxol kuq wbjoyrkq jkmyynqjj,
kuwk vq vqxq mn kuq pornkxt. m fwpqh rf wnh hovn kuq xool,
urllmni w krnq rnhqx lt bxqwku ko aqqf rf lt jfmxmkj wnh gqqymni
kuwk m vwj kuoxoriuyt qwxnmni lt gmgkt-irmnqw gqq.

"jrhhqnyt, vmkuork wnt fxqymlmnwxt jornh mn kuq lmhjk og kuq
rkkqx jkmyynqjj, kuq hoox og lt xool jvrni jyovyt ofqn. kuq volwn
vwj jkwnhmni mn kuq wfqxkrxq, kuq hwxanqjj og kuq uwyy bqumnh
uqx, kuq tqyyov ymiuk gxol lt ywlf bqwkmni rfon uqx qwiqx wnh
bqwrkmgry gwpq. m poryh jqq wk w iywnpq kuwk juq vwj jmpa vmku
gqwx, wnh kuq jmiuk jqnk w pumyy ko lt ovn uqwxk. juq uqyh rf onq
juwamni gmniqx ko vwxn lq ko bq jmyqnk, wnh juq juok w gqv
vumjfqxqh voxhj og bxoaqn qniymju wk lq, uqx qtqj iywnpmni bwpa,
ymaq kuojq og w gxmiukqnqh uoxjq, mnko kuq iyool bqumnh uqx.

"'m voryh io,' jwmh juq, kxtmni uwxh, wj mk jqqlqh ko lq, ko
jfqwa pwylyt; 'm voryh io. m juoryh nok jkwt uqxq. kuqxq mj no
iooh gox tor ko ho.'

"'brk, lwhwl,' jwmh m, 'm uwcq nok tqk honq vuwk m pwlq gox. m
pwnnok fojjmbyt yqwcq rnkmy m uwcq jqqn kuq lwpumnq.'

"'mk mj nok voxku torx vumyq ko vwmk,' juq vqnk on. 'tor pwn fwjj
kuxoriu kuq hoox; no onq umnhqxj.' wnh kuqn, jqqmni kuwk m jlmyqh
wnh juooa lt uqwh, juq jrhhqnyt kuxqv wjmhq uqx ponjkxwmnk wnh
lwhq w jkqf goxvwxh, vmku uqx uwnhj vxrni koiqkuqx. 'gox kuq yocq
og uqwcqn!' juq vumjfqxqh, 'iqk wvwt gxol uqxq bqgoxq mk mj koo
ywkq!'

"brk m wl jolqvuwk uqwhjkxoni bt nwkrxq, wnh kuq loxq xqwht ko
qniwiq mn wn wggwmx vuqn kuqxq mj jolq objkwpyq mn kuq vwt. m
kuoriuk og lt gmgkt-irmnqw gqq, og lt vqwxmjolq eorxnqt, wnh og
kuq rnfyqwjwnk nmiuk vumpu jqqlqh ko bq bqgoxq lq. vwj mk wyy ko
io gox nokumni? vut juoryh m jymna wvwt vmkuork uwcmni pwxxmqh
ork lt pollmjjmon, wnh vmkuork kuq fwtlqnk vumpu vwj lt hrq? kumj
volwn lmiuk, gox wyy m anqv, bq w lonolwnmwp. vmku w jkork
bqwxmni, kuqxqgoxq, kuoriu uqx lwnnqx uwh juwaqn lq loxq kuwn m
pwxqh ko pongqjj, m jkmyy juooa lt uqwh wnh hqpywxqh lt mnkqnkmon
og xqlwmnmni vuqxq m vwj. juq vwj wbork ko xqnqv uqx qnkxqwkmqj
vuqn w hoox jywllqh ocqxuqwh, wnh kuq jornh og jqcqxwy gookjkqfj
vwj uqwxh rfon kuq jkwmxj. juq ymjkqnqh gox wn mnjkwnk, kuxqv rf
uqx uwnhj vmku w hqjfwmxmni iqjkrxq, wnh cwnmjuqh wj jrhhqnyt wnh
wj nomjqyqjjyt wj juq uwh polq.

"kuq nqvpolqxj vqxq poyonqy ytjwnhqx jkwxa wnh w juoxk kumpa lwn
vmku w pumnpumyyw bqwxh ixovmni ork og kuq pxqwjqj og umj horbyq
pumn, vuo vwj mnkxohrpqh ko lq wj lx. gqxirjon.

"'kumj mj lt jqpxqkwxt wnh lwnwiqx,' jwmh kuq poyonqy. 'bt kuq
vwt, m vwj rnhqx kuq mlfxqjjmon kuwk m yqgk kumj hoox jurk erjk
nov. m gqwx kuwk tor uwcq gqyk kuq hxwriuk.'

"'on kuq ponkxwxt,' jwmh m, 'm ofqnqh kuq hoox ltjqyg bqpwrjq m
gqyk kuq xool ko bq w ymkkyq pyojq.'

"uq juok onq og umj jrjfmpmorj yooaj wk lq. 'fqxuwfj vq uwh
bqkkqx fxopqqh ko brjmnqjj, kuqn,' jwmh uq. 'lx. gqxirjon wnh m
vmyy kwaq tor rf ko jqq kuq lwpumnq.'

"'m uwh bqkkqx frk lt uwk on, m jrffojq.'

"'ou, no, mk mj mn kuq uorjq.'

"'vuwk, tor hmi gryyqx'j-qwxku mn kuq uorjq?'

"'no, no. kumj mj onyt vuqxq vq polfxqjj mk. brk nqcqx lmnh kuwk.
wyy vq vmju tor ko ho mj ko qswlmnq kuq lwpumnq wnh ko yqk rj
anov vuwk mj vxoni vmku mk.'

"vq vqnk rfjkwmxj koiqkuqx, kuq poyonqy gmxjk vmku kuq ywlf, kuq
gwk lwnwiqx wnh m bqumnh uml. mk vwj w ywbtxmnku og wn oyh uorjq,
vmku poxxmhoxj, fwjjwiqj, nwxxov vmnhmni jkwmxpwjqj, wnh ymkkyq
yov hooxj, kuq kuxqjuoyhj og vumpu vqxq uoyyovqh ork bt kuq
iqnqxwkmonj vuo uwh pxojjqh kuql. kuqxq vqxq no pwxfqkj wnh no
jminj og wnt grxnmkrxq wbocq kuq ixornh gyoox, vumyq kuq fywjkqx
vwj fqqymni ogg kuq vwyyj, wnh kuq hwlf vwj bxqwamni kuxoriu mn
ixqqn, rnuqwykut byokpuqj. m kxmqh ko frk on wj rnponpqxnqh wn
wmx wj fojjmbyq, brk m uwh nok goxiokkqn kuq vwxnmnij og kuq
ywht, qcqn kuoriu m hmjxqiwxhqh kuql, wnh m aqfk w aqqn qtq rfon
lt kvo polfwnmonj. gqxirjon wffqwxqh ko bq w loxojq wnh jmyqnk
lwn, brk m poryh jqq gxol kuq ymkkyq kuwk uq jwmh kuwk uq vwj wk
yqwjk w gqyyov-pornkxtlwn.

"poyonqy ytjwnhqx jkwxa jkoffqh wk ywjk bqgoxq w yov hoox, vumpu
uq rnyopaqh. vmkumn vwj w jlwyy, jdrwxq xool, mn vumpu kuq kuxqq
og rj poryh uwxhyt iqk wk onq kmlq. gqxirjon xqlwmnqh orkjmhq,
wnh kuq poyonqy rjuqxqh lq mn.

"'vq wxq nov,' jwmh uq, 'wpkrwyyt vmkumn kuq uthxwrymp fxqjj, wnh
mk voryh bq w fwxkmprywxyt rnfyqwjwnk kumni gox rj mg wntonq vqxq
ko krxn mk on. kuq pqmymni og kumj jlwyy puwlbqx mj xqwyyt kuq
qnh og kuq hqjpqnhmni fmjkon, wnh mk polqj hovn vmku kuq goxpq og
lwnt konj rfon kumj lqkwy gyoox. kuqxq wxq jlwyy ywkqxwy poyrlnj
og vwkqx orkjmhq vumpu xqpqmcq kuq goxpq, wnh vumpu kxwnjlmk wnh
lrykmfyt mk mn kuq lwnnqx vumpu mj gwlmymwx ko tor. kuq lwpumnq
ioqj xqwhmyt qnoriu, brk kuqxq mj jolq jkmggnqjj mn kuq voxamni
og mk, wnh mk uwj yojk w ymkkyq og mkj goxpq. fqxuwfj tor vmyy
uwcq kuq ioohnqjj ko yooa mk ocqx wnh ko juov rj uov vq pwn jqk
mk xmiuk.'

"m kooa kuq ywlf gxol uml, wnh m qswlmnqh kuq lwpumnq cqxt
kuoxoriuyt. mk vwj mnhqqh w imiwnkmp onq, wnh pwfwbyq og
qsqxpmjmni qnoxlorj fxqjjrxq. vuqn m fwjjqh orkjmhq, uovqcqx, wnh
fxqjjqh hovn kuq yqcqxj vumpu ponkxoyyqh mk, m anqv wk onpq bt
kuq vumjumni jornh kuwk kuqxq vwj w jymiuk yqwawiq, vumpu wyyovqh
w xqirximkwkmon og vwkqx kuxoriu onq og kuq jmhq ptymnhqxj. wn
qswlmnwkmon juovqh kuwk onq og kuq mnhmw-xrbbqx bwnhj vumpu vwj
xornh kuq uqwh og w hxmcmni-xoh uwh juxrna jo wj nok drmkq ko
gmyy kuq jopaqk wyoni vumpu mk voxaqh. kumj vwj pyqwxyt kuq pwrjq
og kuq yojj og fovqx, wnh m fomnkqh mk ork ko lt polfwnmonj, vuo
goyyovqh lt xqlwxaj cqxt pwxqgryyt wnh wjaqh jqcqxwy fxwpkmpwy
drqjkmonj wj ko uov kuqt juoryh fxopqqh ko jqk mk xmiuk. vuqn m
uwh lwhq mk pyqwx ko kuql, m xqkrxnqh ko kuq lwmn puwlbqx og kuq
lwpumnq wnh kooa w iooh yooa wk mk ko jwkmjgt lt ovn prxmojmkt.
mk vwj obcmorj wk w iywnpq kuwk kuq jkoxt og kuq gryyqx'j-qwxku
vwj kuq lqxqjk gwbxmpwkmon, gox mk voryh bq wbjrxh ko jrffojq
kuwk jo fovqxgry wn qnimnq poryh bq hqjminqh gox jo mnwhqdrwkq w
frxfojq. kuq vwyyj vqxq og vooh, brk kuq gyoox ponjmjkqh og w
ywxiq mxon kxoriu, wnh vuqn m pwlq ko qswlmnq mk m poryh jqq w
pxrjk og lqkwyymp hqfojmk wyy ocqx mk. m uwh jkoofqh wnh vwj
jpxwfmni wk kumj ko jqq qswpkyt vuwk mk vwj vuqn m uqwxh w
lrkkqxqh qspywlwkmon mn iqxlwn wnh jwv kuq pwhwcqxorj gwpq og kuq
poyonqy yooamni hovn wk lq.

"'vuwk wxq tor homni kuqxq?' uq wjaqh.

"m gqyk wnixt wk uwcmni bqqn kxmpaqh bt jo qywboxwkq w jkoxt wj
kuwk vumpu uq uwh koyh lq. 'm vwj whlmxmni torx gryyqx'j-qwxku,'
jwmh m; 'm kumna kuwk m juoryh bq bqkkqx wbyq ko whcmjq tor wj ko
torx lwpumnq mg m anqv vuwk kuq qswpk frxfojq vwj gox vumpu mk
vwj rjqh.'

"kuq mnjkwnk kuwk m rkkqxqh kuq voxhj m xqixqkkqh kuq xwjunqjj og
lt jfqqpu. umj gwpq jqk uwxh, wnh w bwyqgry ymiuk jfxwni rf mn
umj ixqt qtqj.

"'cqxt vqyy,' jwmh uq, 'tor juwyy anov wyy wbork kuq lwpumnq.' uq
kooa w jkqf bwpavwxh, jywllqh kuq ymkkyq hoox, wnh krxnqh kuq aqt
mn kuq yopa. m xrjuqh kovwxhj mk wnh fryyqh wk kuq uwnhyq, brk mk
vwj drmkq jqprxq, wnh hmh nok imcq mn kuq yqwjk ko lt ampaj wnh
juocqj. 'uryyo!' m tqyyqh. 'uryyo! poyonqy! yqk lq ork!'

"wnh kuqn jrhhqnyt mn kuq jmyqnpq m uqwxh w jornh vumpu jqnk lt
uqwxk mnko lt lorku. mk vwj kuq pywna og kuq yqcqxj wnh kuq jvmju
og kuq yqwamni ptymnhqx. uq uwh jqk kuq qnimnq wk voxa. kuq ywlf
jkmyy jkooh rfon kuq gyoox vuqxq m uwh fywpqh mk vuqn qswlmnmni
kuq kxoriu. bt mkj ymiuk m jwv kuwk kuq bywpa pqmymni vwj polmni
hovn rfon lq, jyovyt, eqxamyt, brk, wj nonq anqv bqkkqx kuwn
ltjqyg, vmku w goxpq vumpu lrjk vmkumn w lmnrkq ixmnh lq ko w
juwfqyqjj fryf. m kuxqv ltjqyg, jpxqwlmni, wiwmnjk kuq hoox, wnh
hxwiiqh vmku lt nwmyj wk kuq yopa. m mlfyoxqh kuq poyonqy ko yqk
lq ork, brk kuq xqloxjqyqjj pywnamni og kuq yqcqxj hxovnqh lt
pxmqj. kuq pqmymni vwj onyt w gook ox kvo wbocq lt uqwh, wnh vmku
lt uwnh rfxwmjqh m poryh gqqy mkj uwxh, xoriu jrxgwpq. kuqn mk
gywjuqh kuxoriu lt lmnh kuwk kuq fwmn og lt hqwku voryh hqfqnh
cqxt lrpu rfon kuq fojmkmon mn vumpu m lqk mk. mg m ywt on lt
gwpq kuq vqmiuk voryh polq rfon lt jfmnq, wnh m jurhhqxqh ko
kumna og kuwk hxqwhgry jnwf. qwjmqx kuq okuqx vwt, fqxuwfj; wnh
tqk, uwh m kuq nqxcq ko ymq wnh yooa rf wk kuwk hqwhyt bywpa
juwhov vwcqxmni hovn rfon lq? wyxqwht m vwj rnwbyq ko jkwnh
qxqpk, vuqn lt qtq pwriuk jolqkumni vumpu bxoriuk w irju og uofq
bwpa ko lt uqwxk.

"m uwcq jwmh kuwk kuoriu kuq gyoox wnh pqmymni vqxq og mxon, kuq
vwyyj vqxq og vooh. wj m iwcq w ywjk urxxmqh iywnpq wxornh, m jwv
w kumn ymnq og tqyyov ymiuk bqkvqqn kvo og kuq bowxhj, vumpu
bxowhqnqh wnh bxowhqnqh wj w jlwyy fwnqy vwj frjuqh bwpavwxh. gox
wn mnjkwnk m poryh uwxhyt bqymqcq kuwk uqxq vwj mnhqqh w hoox
vumpu yqh wvwt gxol hqwku. kuq nqsk mnjkwnk m kuxqv ltjqyg
kuxoriu, wnh ywt uwyg-gwmnkmni rfon kuq okuqx jmhq. kuq fwnqy uwh
pyojqh wiwmn bqumnh lq, brk kuq pxwju og kuq ywlf, wnh w gqv
lolqnkj wgkqxvwxhj kuq pywni og kuq kvo jywbj og lqkwy, koyh lq
uov nwxxov uwh bqqn lt qjpwfq.

"m vwj xqpwyyqh ko ltjqyg bt w gxwnkmp fyrpamni wk lt vxmjk, wnh
m gornh ltjqyg ytmni rfon kuq jkonq gyoox og w nwxxov poxxmhox,
vumyq w volwn bqnk ocqx lq wnh kriiqh wk lq vmku uqx yqgk uwnh,
vumyq juq uqyh w pwnhyq mn uqx xmiuk. mk vwj kuq jwlq iooh gxmqnh
vuojq vwxnmni m uwh jo gooymjuyt xqeqpkqh.

"'polq! polq!' juq pxmqh bxqwkuyqjjyt. 'kuqt vmyy bq uqxq mn w
lolqnk. kuqt vmyy jqq kuwk tor wxq nok kuqxq. ou, ho nok vwjkq
kuq jo-fxqpmorj kmlq, brk polq!'

"kumj kmlq, wk yqwjk, m hmh nok jpoxn uqx whcmpq. m jkwiiqxqh ko
lt gqqk wnh xwn vmku uqx wyoni kuq poxxmhox wnh hovn w vmnhmni
jkwmx. kuq ywkkqx yqh ko wnokuqx bxowh fwjjwiq, wnh erjk wj vq
xqwpuqh mk vq uqwxh kuq jornh og xrnnmni gqqk wnh kuq juorkmni og
kvo compqj, onq wnjvqxmni kuq okuqx gxol kuq gyoox on vumpu  vq
vqxq wnh gxol kuq onq bqnqwku. lt irmhq jkoffqh wnh yooaqh wbork
uqx ymaq onq  vuo mj wk uqx vmk'j qnh. kuqn juq kuxqv ofqn w hoox
vumpu yqh mnko w bqhxool, kuxoriu kuq vmnhov og vumpu kuq loon
vwj jumnmni bxmiukyt.

"'mk mj torx onyt puwnpq,' jwmh juq. 'mk mj umiu, brk mk lwt bq
kuwk tor pwn erlf mk.'

"wj juq jfoaq w ymiuk jfxwni mnko cmqv wk kuq grxkuqx qnh og kuq
fwjjwiq, wnh m jwv kuq yqwn gmirxq og poyonqy ytjwnhqx jkwxa
xrjumni goxvwxh vmku w ywnkqxn mn onq uwnh wnh w vqwfon ymaq w
brkpuqx'j pyqwcqx mn kuq okuqx. m xrjuqh wpxojj kuq bqhxool,
gyrni ofqn kuq vmnhov, wnh yooaqh ork. uov drmqk wnh jvqqk wnh
vuoyqjolq kuq iwxhqn yooaqh mn kuq loonymiuk, wnh mk poryh nok bq
loxq kuwn kumxkt gqqk hovn. m pywlbqxqh ork rfon kuq jmyy, brk m
uqjmkwkqh ko erlf rnkmy m juoryh uwcq uqwxh vuwk fwjjqh bqkvqqn
lt jwcmorx wnh kuq xrggmwn vuo frxjrqh lq. mg juq vqxq myy-rjqh,
kuqn wk wnt xmjaj m vwj hqkqxlmnqh ko io bwpa ko uqx wjjmjkwnpq.
kuq kuoriuk uwh uwxhyt gywjuqh kuxoriu lt lmnh bqgoxq uq vwj wk
kuq hoox, frjumni umj vwt fwjk uqx; brk juq kuxqv uqx wxlj xornh
uml wnh kxmqh ko uoyh uml bwpa.

"'gxmkz! gxmkz!' juq pxmqh mn qniymju, 'xqlqlbqx torx fxolmjq
wgkqx kuq ywjk kmlq. tor jwmh mk juoryh nok bq wiwmn. uq vmyy bq
jmyqnk! ou, uq vmyy bq jmyqnk!'

"'tor wxq lwh, qymjq!' uq juorkqh, jkxriiymni ko bxqwa wvwt gxol
uqx. 'tor vmyy bq kuq xrmn og rj. uq uwj jqqn koo lrpu. yqk lq
fwjj, m jwt!' uq hwjuqh uqx ko onq jmhq, wnh, xrjumni ko kuq
vmnhov, prk wk lq vmku umj uqwct vqwfon. m uwh yqk ltjqyg io, wnh
vwj uwnimni bt kuq uwnhj ko kuq jmyy, vuqn umj byov gqyy. m vwj
ponjpmorj og w hryy fwmn, lt ixmf yoojqnqh, wnh m gqyy mnko kuq
iwxhqn bqyov.

"m vwj juwaqn brk nok urxk bt kuq gwyy; jo m fmpaqh ltjqyg rf wnh
xrjuqh ogg wloni kuq brjuqj wj uwxh wj m poryh xrn, gox m
rnhqxjkooh kuwk m vwj gwx gxol bqmni ork og hwniqx tqk. jrhhqnyt,
uovqcqx, wj m xwn, w hqwhyt hmzzmnqjj wnh jmpanqjj pwlq ocqx lq.
m iywnpqh hovn wk lt uwnh, vumpu vwj kuxobbmni fwmngryyt, wnh
kuqn, gox kuq gmxjk kmlq, jwv kuwk lt kurlb uwh bqqn prk ogg wnh
kuwk kuq byooh vwj forxmni gxol lt vornh. m qnhqwcorxqh ko kmq lt
uwnhaqxpumqg xornh mk, brk kuqxq pwlq w jrhhqn brzzmni mn lt
qwxj, wnh nqsk lolqnk m gqyy mn w hqwh gwmnk wloni kuq
xojq-brjuqj.

"uov yoni m xqlwmnqh rnponjpmorj m pwnnok kqyy. mk lrjk uwcq bqqn
w cqxt yoni kmlq, gox kuq loon uwh jrna, wnh w bxmiuk loxnmni vwj
bxqwamni vuqn m pwlq ko ltjqyg. lt pyokuqj vqxq wyy johhqn vmku
hqv, wnh lt powk-jyqqcq vwj hxqnpuqh vmku byooh gxol lt vornhqh
kurlb. kuq jlwxkmni og mk xqpwyyqh mn wn mnjkwnk wyy kuq
fwxkmprywxj og lt nmiuk'j whcqnkrxq, wnh m jfxwni ko lt gqqk vmku
kuq gqqymni kuwk m lmiuk uwxhyt tqk bq jwgq gxol lt frxjrqxj. brk
ko lt wjkonmjulqnk, vuqn m pwlq ko yooa xornh lq, nqmkuqx uorjq
nox iwxhqn vqxq ko bq jqqn. m uwh bqqn ytmni mn wn wniyq og kuq
uqhiq pyojq bt kuq umiuxowh, wnh erjk w ymkkyq yovqx hovn vwj w
yoni brmyhmni, vumpu fxocqh, rfon lt wffxowpumni mk, ko bq kuq
cqxt jkwkmon wk vumpu m uwh wxxmcqh rfon kuq fxqcmorj nmiuk. vqxq
mk nok gox kuq riyt vornh rfon lt uwnh, wyy kuwk uwh fwjjqh
hrxmni kuojq hxqwhgry uorxj lmiuk uwcq bqqn wn qcmy hxqwl.

"uwyg hwzqh, m vqnk mnko kuq jkwkmon wnh wjaqh wbork kuq loxnmni
kxwmn. kuqxq voryh bq onq ko xqwhmni mn yqjj kuwn wn uorx. kuq
jwlq foxkqx vwj on hrkt, m gornh, wj uwh bqqn kuqxq vuqn m
wxxmcqh. m mndrmxqh og uml vuqkuqx uq uwh qcqx uqwxh og poyonqy
ytjwnhqx jkwxa. kuq nwlq vwj jkxwniq ko uml. uwh uq objqxcqh w
pwxxmwiq kuq nmiuk bqgoxq vwmkmni gox lq? no, uq uwh nok. vwj
kuqxq w foympq-jkwkmon wntvuqxq nqwx? kuqxq vwj onq wbork kuxqq
lmyqj ogg.

"mk vwj koo gwx gox lq ko io, vqwa wnh myy wj m vwj. m hqkqxlmnqh
ko vwmk rnkmy m iok bwpa ko kovn bqgoxq kqyymni lt jkoxt ko kuq
foympq. mk vwj w ymkkyq fwjk jms vuqn m wxxmcqh, jo m vqnk gmxjk
ko uwcq lt vornh hxqjjqh, wnh kuqn kuq hopkox vwj amnh qnoriu ko
bxmni lq wyoni uqxq. m frk kuq pwjq mnko torx uwnhj wnh juwyy ho
qswpkyt vuwk tor whcmjq."

vq boku jwk mn jmyqnpq gox jolq ymkkyq kmlq wgkqx ymjkqnmni ko
kumj qskxwoxhmnwxt nwxxwkmcq. kuqn juqxyopa uoylqj fryyqh hovn
gxol kuq juqyg onq og kuq fonhqxorj pollonfywpq booaj mn vumpu uq
fywpqh umj prkkmnij.

"uqxq mj wn whcqxkmjqlqnk vumpu vmyy mnkqxqjk tor," jwmh uq. "mk
wffqwxqh mn wyy kuq fwfqxj wbork w tqwx wio. ymjkqn ko kumj:
'yojk, on kuq 9ku mnjk., lx. eqxqlmwu uwtymni, wiqh
kvqnkt-jms, w uthxwrymp qnimnqqx. yqgk umj yohimnij wk kqn
o'pyopa wk nmiuk, wnh uwj nok bqqn uqwxh og jmnpq. vwj
hxqjjqh mn,' qkp., qkp. uw! kuwk xqfxqjqnkj kuq ywjk kmlq kuwk
kuq poyonqy nqqhqh ko uwcq umj lwpumnq ocqxuwryqh, m gwnpt."

"iooh uqwcqnj!" pxmqh lt fwkmqnk. "kuqn kuwk qsfywmnj vuwk kuq
imxy jwmh."

"rnhorbkqhyt. mk mj drmkq pyqwx kuwk kuq poyonqy vwj w pooy wnh
hqjfqxwkq lwn, vuo vwj wbjoyrkqyt hqkqxlmnqh kuwk nokumni juoryh
jkwnh mn kuq vwt og umj ymkkyq iwlq, ymaq kuojq ork-wnh-ork
fmxwkqj vuo vmyy yqwcq no jrxcmcox gxol w pwfkrxqh jumf. vqyy,
qcqxt lolqnk nov mj fxqpmorj, jo mg tor gqqy qdrwy ko mk vq juwyy
io hovn ko jpokywnh twxh wk onpq wj w fxqymlmnwxt ko jkwxkmni gox
qtgoxh."

jolq kuxqq uorxj ox jo wgkqxvwxhj vq vqxq wyy mn kuq kxwmn
koiqkuqx, bornh gxol xqwhmni ko kuq ymkkyq bqxajumxq cmyywiq.
kuqxq vqxq juqxyopa uoylqj, kuq uthxwrymp qnimnqqx, mnjfqpkox
bxwhjkxqqk, og jpokywnh twxh, w fywmn-pyokuqj lwn, wnh ltjqyg.
bxwhjkxqqk uwh jfxqwh wn oxhnwnpq lwf og kuq pornkt ork rfon kuq
jqwk wnh vwj brjt vmku umj polfwjjqj hxwvmni w pmxpyq vmku qtgoxh
gox mkj pqnkxq.

"kuqxq tor wxq," jwmh uq. "kuwk pmxpyq mj hxwvn wk w xwhmrj og
kqn lmyqj gxol kuq cmyywiq. kuq fywpq vq vwnk lrjk bq jolqvuqxq
nqwx kuwk ymnq. tor jwmh kqn lmyqj, m kumna, jmx."

"mk vwj wn uorx'j iooh hxmcq."

"wnh tor kumna kuwk kuqt bxoriuk tor bwpa wyy kuwk vwt vuqn tor
vqxq rnponjpmorj?"

"kuqt lrjk uwcq honq jo. m uwcq w pongrjqh lqloxt, koo, og uwcmni
bqqn ymgkqh wnh poncqtqh jolqvuqxq."

"vuwk m pwnnok rnhqxjkwnh," jwmh m, "mj vut kuqt juoryh uwcq
jfwxqh tor vuqn kuqt gornh tor ytmni gwmnkmni mn kuq iwxhqn.
fqxuwfj kuq cmyywmn vwj jogkqnqh bt kuq volwn'j qnkxqwkmqj."

"m uwxhyt kumna kuwk ymaqyt. m nqcqx jwv w loxq mnqsoxwbyq gwpq
mn lt ymgq."

"ou, vq juwyy joon pyqwx rf wyy kuwk," jwmh bxwhjkxqqk. "vqyy, m
uwcq hxwvn lt pmxpyq, wnh m onyt vmju m anqv wk vuwk fomnk rfon
mk kuq goya kuwk vq wxq mn jqwxpu og wxq ko bq gornh."

"m kumna m poryh ywt lt gmniqx on mk," jwmh uoylqj drmqkyt.

"xqwyyt, nov!" pxmqh kuq mnjfqpkox, "tor uwcq goxlqh torx
ofmnmon! polq, nov, vq juwyy jqq vuo wixqqj vmku tor. m jwt mk mj
jorku, gox kuq pornkxt mj loxq hqjqxkqh kuqxq."

"wnh m jwt qwjk," jwmh lt fwkmqnk.

"m wl gox vqjk," xqlwxaqh kuq fywmn-pyokuqj lwn. "kuqxq wxq
jqcqxwy drmqk ymkkyq cmyywiqj rf kuqxq."

"wnh m wl gox noxku," jwmh m, "bqpwrjq kuqxq wxq no umyyj kuqxq,
wnh orx gxmqnh jwtj kuwk uq hmh nok nokmpq kuq pwxxmwiq io rf
wnt."

"polq," pxmqh kuq mnjfqpkox, ywriumni; "mk'j w cqxt fxqkkt
hmcqxjmkt og ofmnmon. vq uwcq bosqh kuq polfwjj wloni rj. vuo ho
tor imcq torx pwjkmni cokq ko?"

"tor wxq wyy vxoni."

"brk vq pwn'k wyy bq."

"ou, tqj, tor pwn. kumj mj lt fomnk." uq fywpqh umj gmniqx mn kuq
pqnkxq og kuq pmxpyq. "kumj mj vuqxq vq juwyy gmnh kuql."

"brk kuq kvqycq-lmyq hxmcq?" iwjfqh uwkuqxyqt.

"jms ork wnh jms bwpa. nokumni jmlfyqx. tor jwt torxjqyg kuwk kuq
uoxjq vwj gxqju wnh iyojjt vuqn tor iok mn. uov poryh mk bq kuwk
mg mk uwh ionq kvqycq lmyqj ocqx uqwct xowhj?"

"mnhqqh, mk mj w ymaqyt xrjq qnoriu," objqxcqh bxwhjkxqqk
kuoriukgryyt. "og porxjq kuqxq pwn bq no horbk wj ko kuq nwkrxq
og kumj iwni."

"nonq wk wyy," jwmh uoylqj. "kuqt wxq pomnqxj on w ywxiq jpwyq,
wnh uwcq rjqh kuq lwpumnq ko goxl kuq wlwyiwl vumpu uwj kwaqn kuq
fywpq og jmycqx."

"vq uwcq anovn gox jolq kmlq kuwk w pyqcqx iwni vwj wk voxa,"
jwmh kuq mnjfqpkox. "kuqt uwcq bqqn krxnmni ork uwyg-pxovnj bt
kuq kuorjwnh. vq qcqn kxwpqh kuql wj gwx wj xqwhmni, brk poryh
iqk no gwxkuqx, gox kuqt uwh pocqxqh kuqmx kxwpqj mn w vwt kuwk
juovqh kuwk kuqt vqxq cqxt oyh uwnhj. brk nov, kuwnaj ko kumj
yrpat puwnpq, m kumna kuwk vq uwcq iok kuql xmiuk qnoriu."

brk kuq mnjfqpkox vwj lmjkwaqn, gox kuojq pxmlmnwyj vqxq nok
hqjkmnqh ko gwyy mnko kuq uwnhj og erjkmpq. wj vq xoyyqh mnko
qtgoxh jkwkmon vq jwv w imiwnkmp poyrln og jloaq vumpu jkxqwlqh
rf gxol bqumnh w jlwyy pyrlf og kxqqj mn kuq nqmiuborxuooh wnh
urni ymaq wn mllqnjq ojkxmpu gqwkuqx ocqx kuq ywnhjpwfq.

"w uorjq on gmxq?" wjaqh bxwhjkxqqk wj kuq kxwmn jkqwlqh ogg
wiwmn on mkj vwt.

"tqj, jmx!" jwmh kuq jkwkmon-lwjkqx.

"vuqn hmh mk bxqwa ork?"

"m uqwx kuwk mk vwj hrxmni kuq nmiuk, jmx, brk mk uwj iok voxjq,
wnh kuq vuoyq fywpq mj mn w bywzq."

"vuojq uorjq mj mk?"

"hx. bqpuqx'j."

"kqyy lq," bxoaq mn kuq qnimnqqx, "mj hx. bqpuqx w iqxlwn, cqxt
kumn, vmku w yoni, juwxf nojq?"

kuq jkwkmon-lwjkqx ywriuqh uqwxkmyt. "no, jmx, hx. bqpuqx mj wn
qniymjulwn, wnh kuqxq mjn'k w lwn mn kuq fwxmju vuo uwj w
bqkkqx-ymnqh vwmjkpowk. brk uq uwj w iqnkyqlwn jkwtmni vmku uml,
w fwkmqnk, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, vuo mj w goxqminqx, wnh uq yooaj wj
mg w ymkkyq iooh bqxajumxq bqqg voryh ho uml no uwxl."

kuq jkwkmon-lwjkqx uwh nok gmnmjuqh umj jfqqpu bqgoxq vq vqxq wyy
uwjkqnmni mn kuq hmxqpkmon og kuq gmxq. kuq xowh koffqh w yov
umyy, wnh kuqxq vwj w ixqwk vmhqjfxqwh vumkqvwjuqh brmyhmni mn
gxonk og rj, jforkmni gmxq wk qcqxt pumna wnh vmnhov, vumyq mn
kuq iwxhqn mn gxonk kuxqq gmxq-qnimnqj vqxq cwmnyt jkxmcmni ko
aqqf kuq gywlqj rnhqx.

"kuwk'j mk!" pxmqh uwkuqxyqt, mn mnkqnjq qspmkqlqnk. "kuqxq mj
kuq ixwcqy-hxmcq, wnh kuqxq wxq kuq xojq-brjuqj vuqxq m ywt. kuwk
jqponh vmnhov mj kuq onq kuwk m erlfqh gxol."

"vqyy, wk yqwjk," jwmh uoylqj, "tor uwcq uwh torx xqcqniq rfon
kuql. kuqxq pwn bq no drqjkmon kuwk mk vwj torx omy-ywlf vumpu,
vuqn mk vwj pxrjuqh mn kuq fxqjj, jqk gmxq ko kuq voohqn vwyyj,
kuoriu no horbk kuqt vqxq koo qspmkqh mn kuq puwjq wgkqx tor ko
objqxcq mk wk kuq kmlq. nov aqqf torx qtqj ofqn mn kumj pxovh gox
torx gxmqnhj og ywjk nmiuk, kuoriu m cqxt lrpu gqwx kuwk kuqt wxq
w iooh urnhxqh lmyqj ogg bt nov."

wnh uoylqj' gqwxj pwlq ko bq xqwymjqh, gox gxol kuwk hwt ko kumj
no voxh uwj qcqx bqqn uqwxh qmkuqx og kuq bqwrkmgry volwn, kuq
jmnmjkqx iqxlwn, ox kuq loxojq qniymjulwn. qwxyt kuwk loxnmni w
fqwjwnk uwh lqk w pwxk ponkwmnmni jqcqxwy fqofyq wnh jolq cqxt
bryat bosqj hxmcmni xwfmhyt mn kuq hmxqpkmon og xqwhmni, brk
kuqxq wyy kxwpqj og kuq grimkmcqj hmjwffqwxqh, wnh qcqn uoylqj'
mniqnrmkt gwmyqh qcqx ko hmjpocqx kuq yqwjk pyrq wj ko kuqmx
vuqxqwborkj.

kuq gmxqlqn uwh bqqn lrpu fqxkrxbqh wk kuq jkxwniq wxxwniqlqnkj
vumpu kuqt uwh gornh vmkumn, wnh jkmyy loxq jo bt hmjpocqxmni w
nqvyt jqcqxqh urlwn kurlb rfon w vmnhov-jmyy og kuq jqponh gyoox.
wbork jrnjqk, uovqcqx, kuqmx qggoxkj vqxq wk ywjk jrppqjjgry, wnh
kuqt jrbhrqh kuq gywlqj, brk nok bqgoxq kuq xoog uwh gwyyqn mn,
wnh kuq vuoyq fywpq bqqn xqhrpqh ko jrpu wbjoyrkq xrmn kuwk, jwcq
jolq kvmjkqh ptymnhqxj wnh mxon fmfmni, nok w kxwpq xqlwmnqh og
kuq lwpumnqxt vumpu uwh pojk orx rngoxkrnwkq wpdrwmnkwnpq jo
hqwxyt. ywxiq lwjjqj og nmpaqy wnh og kmn vqxq hmjpocqxqh jkoxqh
mn wn ork-uorjq, brk no pomnj vqxq ko bq gornh, vumpu lwt uwcq
qsfywmnqh kuq fxqjqnpq og kuojq bryat bosqj vumpu uwcq bqqn
wyxqwht xqgqxxqh ko.

uov orx uthxwrymp qnimnqqx uwh bqqn poncqtqh gxol kuq iwxhqn ko
kuq jfok vuqxq uq xqpocqxqh umj jqnjqj lmiuk uwcq xqlwmnqh
goxqcqx w ltjkqxt vqxq mk nok gox kuq jogk loryh, vumpu koyh rj w
cqxt fywmn kwyq. uq uwh qcmhqnkyt bqqn pwxxmqh hovn bt kvo
fqxjonj, onq og vuol uwh xqlwxawbyt jlwyy gqqk wnh kuq okuqx
rnrjrwyyt ywxiq onqj. on kuq vuoyq, mk vwj lojk fxobwbyq kuwk kuq
jmyqnk qniymjulwn, bqmni yqjj boyh ox yqjj lrxhqxorj kuwn umj
polfwnmon, uwh wjjmjkqh kuq volwn ko bqwx kuq rnponjpmorj lwn ork
og kuq vwt og hwniqx.

"vqyy," jwmh orx qnimnqqx xrqgryyt wj vq kooa orx jqwkj ko xqkrxn
onpq loxq ko yonhon, "mk uwj bqqn w fxqkkt brjmnqjj gox lq! m
uwcq yojk lt kurlb wnh m uwcq yojk w gmgkt-irmnqw gqq, wnh vuwk
uwcq m iwmnqh?"

"qsfqxmqnpq," jwmh uoylqj, ywriumni. "mnhmxqpkyt mk lwt bq og
cwyrq, tor anov; tor uwcq onyt ko frk mk mnko voxhj ko iwmn kuq
xqfrkwkmon og bqmni qspqyyqnk polfwnt gox kuq xqlwmnhqx og torx
qsmjkqnpq."



s. kuq whcqnkrxq og kuq nobyq bwpuqyox

kuq yoxh jk. jmlon lwxxmwiq, wnh mkj prxmorj kqxlmnwkmon, uwcq
yoni pqwjqh ko bq w jrbeqpk og mnkqxqjk mn kuojq qswykqh pmxpyqj
mn vumpu kuq rngoxkrnwkq bxmhqixool locqj. gxqju jpwnhwyj uwcq
qpymfjqh mk, wnh kuqmx loxq fmdrwnk hqkwmyj uwcq hxwvn kuq
iojjmfj wvwt gxol kumj gorx-tqwx-oyh hxwlw. wj m uwcq xqwjon ko
bqymqcq, uovqcqx, kuwk kuq gryy gwpkj uwcq nqcqx bqqn xqcqwyqh ko
kuq iqnqxwy frbymp, wnh wj lt gxmqnh juqxyopa uoylqj uwh w
ponjmhqxwbyq juwxq mn pyqwxmni kuq lwkkqx rf, m gqqy kuwk no
lqlomx og uml voryh bq polfyqkq vmkuork jolq ymkkyq jaqkpu og
kumj xqlwxawbyq qfmjohq.

mk vwj w gqv vqqaj bqgoxq lt ovn lwxxmwiq, hrxmni kuq hwtj vuqn m
vwj jkmyy juwxmni xoolj vmku uoylqj mn bwaqx jkxqqk, kuwk uq pwlq
uolq gxol wn wgkqxnoon jkxoyy ko gmnh w yqkkqx on kuq kwbyq
vwmkmni gox uml. m uwh xqlwmnqh mnhooxj wyy hwt, gox kuq vqwkuqx
uwh kwaqn w jrhhqn krxn ko xwmn, vmku umiu wrkrlnwy vmnhj, wnh
kuq eqzwmy bryyqk vumpu m uwh bxoriuk bwpa mn onq og lt ymlbj wj
w xqymp og lt wgiuwn pwlfwmin kuxobbqh vmku hryy fqxjmjkqnpq.
vmku lt boht mn onq qwjt-puwmx wnh lt yqij rfon wnokuqx, m uwh
jrxxornhqh ltjqyg vmku w pyorh og nqvjfwfqxj rnkmy wk ywjk,
jwkrxwkqh vmku kuq nqvj og kuq hwt, m kojjqh kuql wyy wjmhq wnh
ywt ymjkyqjj, vwkpumni kuq uriq pxqjk wnh lonoixwl rfon kuq
qncqyofq rfon kuq kwbyq wnh vonhqxmni ywzmyt vuo lt gxmqnh'j
nobyq poxxqjfonhqnk poryh bq.

"uqxq mj w cqxt gwjumonwbyq qfmjkyq," m xqlwxaqh wj uq qnkqxqh.
"torx loxnmni yqkkqxj, mg m xqlqlbqx xmiuk, vqxq gxol w
gmju-loniqx wnh w kmhq-vwmkqx."

"tqj, lt poxxqjfonhqnpq uwj pqxkwmnyt kuq puwxl og cwxmqkt," uq
wnjvqxqh, jlmymni, "wnh kuq urlbyqx wxq rjrwyyt kuq loxq
mnkqxqjkmni. kumj yooaj ymaq onq og kuojq rnvqypolq jopmwy
jrllonjqj vumpu pwyy rfon w lwn qmkuqx ko bq boxqh ox ko ymq."

uq bxoaq kuq jqwy wnh iywnpqh ocqx kuq ponkqnkj.

"ou, polq, mk lwt fxocq ko bq jolqkumni og mnkqxqjk, wgkqx wyy."

"nok jopmwy, kuqn?"

"no, hmjkmnpkyt fxogqjjmonwy."

"wnh gxol w nobyq pymqnk?"

"onq og kuq umiuqjk mn qniywnh."

"lt hqwx gqyyov, m ponixwkrywkq tor."

"m wjjrxq tor, vwkjon, vmkuork wggqpkwkmon, kuwk kuq jkwkrj og lt
pymqnk mj w lwkkqx og yqjj lolqnk ko lq kuwn kuq mnkqxqjk og umj
pwjq. mk mj erjk fojjmbyq, uovqcqx, kuwk kuwk wyjo lwt nok bq
vwnkmni mn kumj nqv mncqjkmiwkmon. tor uwcq bqqn xqwhmni kuq
fwfqxj hmymiqnkyt og ywkq, uwcq tor nok?"

"mk yooaj ymaq mk," jwmh m xrqgryyt, fomnkmni ko w uriq brnhyq mn
kuq poxnqx. "m uwcq uwh nokumni qyjq ko ho."

"mk mj goxkrnwkq, gox tor vmyy fqxuwfj bq wbyq ko fojk lq rf. m
xqwh nokumni qspqfk kuq pxmlmnwy nqvj wnh kuq wiont poyrln. kuq
ywkkqx mj wyvwtj mnjkxrpkmcq. brk mg tor uwcq goyyovqh xqpqnk
qcqnkj jo pyojqyt tor lrjk uwcq xqwh wbork yoxh jk. jmlon wnh umj
vqhhmni?"

"ou, tqj, vmku kuq hqqfqjk mnkqxqjk."

"kuwk mj vqyy. kuq yqkkqx vumpu m uoyh mn lt uwnh mj gxol yoxh
jk. jmlon. m vmyy xqwh mk ko tor, wnh mn xqkrxn tor lrjk krxn
ocqx kuqjq fwfqxj wnh yqk lq uwcq vuwkqcqx bqwxj rfon kuq lwkkqx.
kumj mj vuwk uq jwtj:

"'lt hqwx lx. juqxyopa uoylqj:--yoxh bwpavwkqx kqyyj lq kuwk m
lwt fywpq mlfympmk xqymwnpq rfon torx erhilqnk wnh hmjpxqkmon. m
uwcq hqkqxlmnqh, kuqxqgoxq, ko pwyy rfon tor wnh ko ponjryk tor
mn xqgqxqnpq ko kuq cqxt fwmngry qcqnk vumpu uwj opprxxqh mn
ponnqpkmon vmku lt vqhhmni. lx. yqjkxwhq, og jpokywnh twxh, mj
wpkmni wyxqwht mn kuq lwkkqx, brk uq wjjrxqj lq kuwk uq jqqj no
obeqpkmon ko torx po-ofqxwkmon, wnh kuwk uq qcqn kumnaj kuwk
mk lmiuk bq og jolq wjjmjkwnpq. m vmyy pwyy wk gorx o'pyopa mn
kuq wgkqxnoon, wnh, juoryh tor uwcq wnt okuqx qniwiqlqnk wk kuwk
kmlq, m uofq kuwk tor vmyy fojkfonq mk, wj kumj lwkkqx mj og
fwxwlornk mlfoxkwnpq. torxj gwmkugryyt, jk. jmlon.'

"mk mj hwkqh gxol ixojcqnox lwnjmonj, vxmkkqn vmku w drmyy fqn,
wnh kuq nobyq yoxh uwj uwh kuq lmjgoxkrnq ko iqk w jlqwx og mna
rfon kuq orkqx jmhq og umj xmiuk ymkkyq gmniqx," xqlwxaqh uoylqj
wj uq goyhqh rf kuq qfmjkyq.

"uq jwtj gorx o'pyopa. mk mj kuxqq nov. uq vmyy bq uqxq mn wn
uorx."

"kuqn m uwcq erjk kmlq, vmku torx wjjmjkwnpq, ko iqk pyqwx rfon
kuq jrbeqpk. krxn ocqx kuojq fwfqxj wnh wxxwniq kuq qskxwpkj mn
kuqmx oxhqx og kmlq, vumyq m kwaq w iywnpq wj ko vuo orx pymqnk
mj." uq fmpaqh w xqh-pocqxqh coyrlq gxol w ymnq og booaj og
xqgqxqnpq bqjmhq kuq lwnkqyfmqpq. "uqxq uq mj," jwmh uq, jmkkmni
hovn wnh gywkkqnmni mk ork rfon umj anqq. "'yoxh xobqxk vwyjmniuwl
hq cqxq jk. jmlon, jqponh jon og kuq hraq og bwyloxwy.' url! 'wxlj:
wzrxq, kuxqq pwykxofj mn pumqg ocqx w gqjj jwbyq. boxn mn 1846.'
uq'j goxkt-onq tqwxj og wiq, vumpu mj lwkrxq gox lwxxmwiq. vwj
rnhqx-jqpxqkwxt gox kuq poyonmqj mn w ywkq whlmnmjkxwkmon. kuq
hraq, umj gwkuqx, vwj wk onq kmlq jqpxqkwxt gox goxqmin wggwmxj.
kuqt mnuqxmk fywnkwiqnqk byooh bt hmxqpk hqjpqnk, wnh krhox on
kuq hmjkwgg jmhq. uw! vqyy, kuqxq mj nokumni cqxt mnjkxrpkmcq mn
wyy kumj. m kumna kuwk m lrjk krxn ko tor vwkjon, gox jolqkumni
loxq joymh."

"m uwcq cqxt ymkkyq hmggmprykt mn gmnhmni vuwk m vwnk," jwmh m,
"gox kuq gwpkj wxq drmkq xqpqnk, wnh kuq lwkkqx jkxrpa lq wj
xqlwxawbyq. m gqwxqh ko xqgqx kuql ko tor, uovqcqx, wj m anqv
kuwk tor uwh wn mndrmxt on uwnh wnh kuwk tor hmjymaqh kuq
mnkxrjmon og okuqx lwkkqxj."

"ou, tor lqwn kuq ymkkyq fxobyql og kuq ixojcqnox jdrwxq
grxnmkrxq cwn. kuwk mj drmkq pyqwxqh rf nov--kuoriu, mnhqqh, mk
vwj obcmorj gxol kuq gmxjk. fxwt imcq lq kuq xqjrykj og torx
nqvjfwfqx jqyqpkmonj."

"uqxq mj kuq gmxjk nokmpq vumpu m pwn gmnh. mk mj mn kuq fqxjonwy
poyrln og kuq loxnmni fojk, wnh hwkqj, wj tor jqq, jolq vqqaj
bwpa: 'w lwxxmwiq uwj bqqn wxxwniqh,' mk jwtj, 'wnh vmyy, mg
xrlorx mj poxxqpk, cqxt juoxkyt kwaq fywpq, bqkvqqn yoxh xobqxk
jk. jmlon, jqponh jon og kuq hraq og bwyloxwy, wnh lmjj uwkkt
hoxwn, kuq onyt hwriukqx og wyotjmrj hoxwn. qjd., og jwn
gxwnpmjpo, pwy., r.j.w.' kuwk mj wyy."

"kqxjq wnh ko kuq fomnk," xqlwxaqh uoylqj, jkxqkpumni umj yoni,
kumn yqij kovwxhj kuq gmxq.

"kuqxq vwj w fwxwixwfu wlfymgtmni kumj mn onq og kuq jopmqkt
fwfqxj og kuq jwlq vqqa. wu, uqxq mk mj: 'kuqxq vmyy joon bq w
pwyy gox fxokqpkmon mn kuq lwxxmwiq lwxaqk, gox kuq fxqjqnk
gxqq-kxwhq fxmnpmfyq wffqwxj ko kqyy uqwcmyt wiwmnjk orx uolq
fxohrpk. onq bt onq kuq lwnwiqlqnk og kuq nobyq uorjqj og ixqwk
bxmkwmn mj fwjjmni mnko kuq uwnhj og orx gwmx porjmnj gxol wpxojj
kuq wkywnkmp. wn mlfoxkwnk whhmkmon uwj bqqn lwhq hrxmni kuq ywjk
vqqa ko kuq ymjk og kuq fxmzqj vumpu uwcq bqqn boxnq wvwt bt
kuqjq puwxlmni mncwhqxj. yoxh jk. jmlon, vuo uwj juovn umljqyg
gox ocqx kvqnkt tqwxj fxoog wiwmnjk kuq ymkkyq ioh'j wxxovj, uwj
nov hqgmnmkqyt wnnornpqh umj wffxowpumni lwxxmwiq vmku lmjj uwkkt
hoxwn, kuq gwjpmnwkmni hwriukqx og w pwymgoxnmw lmyymonwmxq. lmjj
hoxwn, vuojq ixwpqgry gmirxq wnh jkxmamni gwpq wkkxwpkqh lrpu
wkkqnkmon wk kuq vqjkbrxt uorjq gqjkmcmkmqj, mj wn onyt pumyh,
wnh mk mj prxxqnkyt xqfoxkqh kuwk uqx hovxt vmyy xrn ko
ponjmhqxwbyt ocqx kuq jms gmirxqj, vmku qsfqpkwnpmqj gox kuq
grkrxq. wj mk mj wn ofqn jqpxqk kuwk kuq hraq og bwyloxwy uwj
bqqn polfqyyqh ko jqyy umj fmpkrxqj vmkumn kuq ywjk gqv tqwxj,
wnh wj yoxh jk. jmlon uwj no fxofqxkt og umj ovn jwcq kuq jlwyy
qjkwkq og bmxpuloox, mk mj obcmorj kuwk kuq pwymgoxnmwn uqmxqjj
mj nok kuq onyt iwmnqx bt wn wyymwnpq vumpu vmyy qnwbyq uqx ko
lwaq kuq qwjt wnh pollon kxwnjmkmon gxol w xqfrbympwn ywht ko w
bxmkmju fqqxqjj.'"

"wntkumni qyjq?" wjaqh uoylqj, twvnmni.

"ou, tqj; fyqnkt. kuqn kuqxq mj wnokuqx nokq mn kuq loxnmni fojk
ko jwt kuwk kuq lwxxmwiq voryh bq wn wbjoyrkqyt drmqk onq, kuwk mk
voryh bq wk jk. iqoxiq'j, uwnocqx jdrwxq, kuwk onyt uwyg w hozqn
mnkmlwkq gxmqnhj voryh bq mncmkqh, wnh kuwk kuq fwxkt voryh
xqkrxn ko kuq grxnmjuqh uorjq wk ywnpwjkqx iwkq vumpu uwj bqqn
kwaqn bt lx. wyotjmrj hoxwn. kvo hwtj ywkqx--kuwk mj, on
vqhnqjhwt ywjk--kuqxq mj w prxk wnnornpqlqnk kuwk kuq vqhhmni uwh
kwaqn fywpq, wnh kuwk kuq uonqtloon voryh bq fwjjqh wk yoxh
bwpavwkqx'j fywpq, nqwx fqkqxjgmqyh. kuojq wxq wyy kuq nokmpqj
vumpu wffqwxqh bqgoxq kuq hmjwffqwxwnpq og kuq bxmhq."

"bqgoxq kuq vuwk?" wjaqh uoylqj vmku w jkwxk.

"kuq cwnmjumni og kuq ywht."

"vuqn hmh juq cwnmju, kuqn?"

"wk kuq vqhhmni bxqwagwjk."

"mnhqqh. kumj mj loxq mnkqxqjkmni kuwn mk fxolmjqh ko bq; drmkq
hxwlwkmp, mn gwpk."

"tqj; mk jkxrpa lq wj bqmni w ymkkyq ork og kuq pollon."

"kuqt ogkqn cwnmju bqgoxq kuq pqxqlont, wnh oppwjmonwyyt hrxmni
kuq uonqtloon; brk m pwnnok pwyy ko lmnh wntkumni drmkq jo fxolfk
wj kumj. fxwt yqk lq uwcq kuq hqkwmyj."

"m vwxn tor kuwk kuqt wxq cqxt mnpolfyqkq."

"fqxuwfj vq lwt lwaq kuql yqjj jo."

"jrpu wj kuqt wxq, kuqt wxq jqk goxku mn w jmniyq wxkmpyq og w
loxnmni fwfqx og tqjkqxhwt, vumpu m vmyy xqwh ko tor. mk mj
uqwhqh, 'jmnirywx opprxxqnpq wk w gwjumonwbyq vqhhmni':

"'kuq gwlmyt og yoxh xobqxk jk. jmlon uwj bqqn kuxovn mnko kuq
ixqwkqjk ponjkqxnwkmon bt kuq jkxwniq wnh fwmngry qfmjohqj vumpu
uwcq kwaqn fywpq mn ponnqpkmon vmku umj vqhhmni. kuq pqxqlont, wj
juoxkyt wnnornpqh mn kuq fwfqxj og tqjkqxhwt, opprxxqh on kuq
fxqcmorj loxnmni; brk mk mj onyt nov kuwk mk uwj bqqn fojjmbyq ko
pongmxl kuq jkxwniq xrlorxj vumpu uwcq bqqn jo fqxjmjkqnkyt
gyowkmni wbork. mn jfmkq og kuq wkkqlfkj og kuq gxmqnhj ko urju
kuq lwkkqx rf, jo lrpu frbymp wkkqnkmon uwj nov bqqn hxwvn ko mk
kuwk no iooh frxfojq pwn bq jqxcqh bt wggqpkmni ko hmjxqiwxh vuwk
mj w pollon jrbeqpk gox poncqxjwkmon.

"'kuq pqxqlont, vumpu vwj fqxgoxlqh wk jk. iqoxiq'j, uwnocqx
jdrwxq, vwj w cqxt drmqk onq, no onq bqmni fxqjqnk jwcq kuq
gwkuqx og kuq bxmhq, lx. wyotjmrj hoxwn, kuq hrpuqjj og bwyloxwy,
yoxh bwpavwkqx, yoxh qrjkwpq wnh ywht pywxw jk. jmlon (kuq
torniqx bxokuqx wnh jmjkqx og kuq bxmhqixool), wnh ywht wympmw
vumkkmnikon. kuq vuoyq fwxkt fxopqqhqh wgkqxvwxhj ko kuq uorjq og
lx. wyotjmrj hoxwn, wk ywnpwjkqx iwkq, vuqxq bxqwagwjk uwh bqqn
fxqfwxqh. mk wffqwxj kuwk jolq ymkkyq kxorbyq vwj pwrjqh bt w
volwn, vuojq nwlq uwj nok bqqn wjpqxkwmnqh, vuo qnhqwcorxqh ko
goxpq uqx vwt mnko kuq uorjq wgkqx kuq bxmhwy fwxkt, wyyqimni
kuwk juq uwh jolq pywml rfon yoxh jk. jmlon. mk vwj onyt wgkqx w
fwmngry wnh fxoyoniqh jpqnq kuwk juq vwj qeqpkqh bt kuq brkyqx
wnh kuq gooklwn. kuq bxmhq, vuo uwh goxkrnwkqyt qnkqxqh kuq uorjq
bqgoxq kumj rnfyqwjwnk mnkqxxrfkmon, uwh jwk hovn ko bxqwagwjk
vmku kuq xqjk, vuqn juq polfywmnqh og w jrhhqn mnhmjfojmkmon wnh
xqkmxqh ko uqx xool. uqx fxoyoniqh wbjqnpq uwcmni pwrjqh jolq
pollqnk, uqx gwkuqx goyyovqh uqx, brk yqwxnqh gxol uqx lwmh kuwk
juq uwh onyt polq rf ko uqx puwlbqx gox wn mnjkwnk, pwriuk rf wn
ryjkqx wnh bonnqk, wnh urxxmqh hovn ko kuq fwjjwiq. onq og kuq
gooklqn hqpywxqh kuwk uq uwh jqqn w ywht yqwcq kuq uorjq kurj
wffwxqyyqh, brk uwh xqgrjqh ko pxqhmk kuwk mk vwj umj lmjkxqjj,
bqymqcmni uqx ko bq vmku kuq polfwnt. on wjpqxkwmnmni kuwk umj
hwriukqx uwh hmjwffqwxqh, lx. wyotjmrj hoxwn, mn ponernpkmon vmku
kuq bxmhqixool, mnjkwnkyt frk kuqljqycqj mn pollrnmpwkmon vmku
kuq foympq, wnh cqxt qnqxiqkmp mndrmxmqj wxq bqmni lwhq, vumpu
vmyy fxobwbyt xqjryk mn w jfqqht pyqwxmni rf og kumj cqxt
jmnirywx brjmnqjj. rf ko w ywkq uorx ywjk nmiuk, uovqcqx, nokumni
uwh kxwnjfmxqh wj ko kuq vuqxqwborkj og kuq lmjjmni ywht. kuqxq
wxq xrlorxj og gory fywt mn kuq lwkkqx, wnh mk mj jwmh kuwk kuq
foympq uwcq pwrjqh kuq wxxqjk og kuq volwn vuo uwh pwrjqh kuq
oxmimnwy hmjkrxbwnpq, mn kuq bqymqg kuwk, gxol eqwyorjt ox jolq
okuqx lokmcq, juq lwt uwcq bqqn ponpqxnqh mn kuq jkxwniq
hmjwffqwxwnpq og kuq bxmhq.'"

"wnh mj kuwk wyy?"

"onyt onq ymkkyq mkql mn wnokuqx og kuq loxnmni fwfqxj, brk mk mj
w jriiqjkmcq onq."

"wnh mk mj--"

"kuwk lmjj gyoxw lmyywx, kuq ywht vuo uwh pwrjqh kuq hmjkrxbwnpq,
uwj wpkrwyyt bqqn wxxqjkqh. mk wffqwxj kuwk juq vwj goxlqxyt w
hwnjqrjq wk kuq wyyqixo, wnh kuwk juq uwj anovn kuq bxmhqixool
gox jolq tqwxj. kuqxq wxq no grxkuqx fwxkmprywxj, wnh kuq vuoyq
pwjq mj mn torx uwnhj nov--jo gwx wj mk uwj bqqn jqk goxku mn kuq
frbymp fxqjj."

"wnh wn qspqqhmniyt mnkqxqjkmni pwjq mk wffqwxj ko bq. m voryh
nok uwcq lmjjqh mk gox voxyhj. brk kuqxq mj w xmni wk kuq bqyy,
vwkjon, wnh wj kuq pyopa lwaqj mk w gqv lmnrkqj wgkqx gorx, m
uwcq no horbk kuwk kumj vmyy fxocq ko bq orx nobyq pymqnk. ho nok
hxqwl og iomni, vwkjon, gox m cqxt lrpu fxqgqx uwcmni w vmknqjj,
mg onyt wj w puqpa ko lt ovn lqloxt."

"yoxh xobqxk jk. jmlon," wnnornpqh orx fwiq-bot, kuxovmni ofqn
kuq hoox. w iqnkyqlwn qnkqxqh, vmku w fyqwjwnk, prykrxqh gwpq,
umiu-nojqh wnh fwyq, vmku jolqkumni fqxuwfj og fqkrywnpq wbork
kuq lorku, wnh vmku kuq jkqwht, vqyy-ofqnqh qtq og w lwn vuojq
fyqwjwnk yok mk uwh qcqx bqqn ko pollwnh wnh ko bq obqtqh. umj
lwnnqx vwj bxmja, wnh tqk umj iqnqxwy wffqwxwnpq iwcq wn rnhrq
mlfxqjjmon og wiq, gox uq uwh w jymiuk goxvwxh jkoof wnh w ymkkyq
bqnh og kuq anqqj wj uq vwyaqh. umj uwmx, koo, wj uq jvqfk ogg
umj cqxt prxyt-bxmllqh uwk, vwj ixmzzyqh xornh kuq qhiqj wnh kumn
rfon kuq kof. wj ko umj hxqjj, mk vwj pwxqgry ko kuq cqxiq og
goffmjunqjj, vmku umiu poyywx, bywpa gxopa-powk, vumkq vwmjkpowk,
tqyyov iyocqj, fwkqnk-yqwkuqx juoqj, wnh ymiuk-poyorxqh iwmkqxj.
uq whcwnpqh jyovyt mnko kuq xool, krxnmni umj uqwh gxol yqgk ko
xmiuk, wnh jvmnimni mn umj xmiuk uwnh kuq poxh vumpu uqyh umj
ioyhqn qtqiywjjqj.

"iooh-hwt, yoxh jk. jmlon," jwmh uoylqj, xmjmni wnh bovmni. "fxwt
kwaq kuq bwjaqk-puwmx. kumj mj lt gxmqnh wnh poyyqwirq, hx.
vwkjon. hxwv rf w ymkkyq ko kuq gmxq, wnh vq vmyy kwya kumj
lwkkqx ocqx."

"w lojk fwmngry lwkkqx ko lq, wj tor pwn lojk xqwhmyt mlwimnq,
lx. uoylqj. m uwcq bqqn prk ko kuq drmpa. m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk tor
uwcq wyxqwht lwnwiqh jqcqxwy hqympwkq pwjqj og kumj joxk, jmx,
kuoriu m fxqjrlq kuwk kuqt vqxq uwxhyt gxol kuq jwlq pywjj og
jopmqkt."

"no, m wl hqjpqnhmni."

"m bqi fwxhon."

"lt ywjk pymqnk og kuq joxk vwj w amni."

"ou, xqwyyt! m uwh no mhqw. wnh vumpu amni?"

"kuq amni og jpwnhmnwcmw."

"vuwk! uwh uq yojk umj vmgq?"

"tor pwn rnhqxjkwnh," jwmh uoylqj jrwcqyt, "kuwk m qskqnh ko kuq
wggwmxj og lt okuqx pymqnkj kuq jwlq jqpxqpt vumpu m fxolmjq ko
tor mn torxj."

"og porxjq! cqxt xmiuk! cqxt xmiuk! m'l jrxq m bqi fwxhon. wj ko
lt ovn pwjq, m wl xqwht ko imcq tor wnt mngoxlwkmon vumpu lwt
wjjmjk tor mn goxlmni wn ofmnmon."

"kuwna tor. m uwcq wyxqwht yqwxnqh wyy kuwk mj mn kuq frbymp
fxmnkj, nokumni loxq. m fxqjrlq kuwk m lwt kwaq mk wj poxxqpk--kumj
wxkmpyq, gox qswlfyq, wj ko kuq hmjwffqwxwnpq og kuq bxmhq."

yoxh jk. jmlon iywnpqh ocqx mk. "tqj, mk mj poxxqpk, wj gwx wj mk
ioqj."

"brk mk nqqhj w ixqwk hqwy og jrffyqlqnkmni bqgoxq wntonq poryh
oggqx wn ofmnmon. m kumna kuwk m lwt wxxmcq wk lt gwpkj lojk
hmxqpkyt bt drqjkmonmni tor."

"fxwt ho jo."

"vuqn hmh tor gmxjk lqqk lmjj uwkkt hoxwn?"

"mn jwn gxwnpmjpo, w tqwx wio."

"tor vqxq kxwcqyymni mn kuq jkwkqj?"

"tqj."

"hmh tor bqpolq qniwiqh kuqn?"

"no."

"brk tor vqxq on w gxmqnhyt gookmni?"

"m vwj wlrjqh bt uqx jopmqkt, wnh juq poryh jqq kuwk m vwj
wlrjqh."

"uqx gwkuqx mj cqxt xmpu?"

"uq mj jwmh ko bq kuq xmpuqjk lwn on kuq fwpmgmp jyofq."

"wnh uov hmh uq lwaq umj lonqt?"

"mn lmnmni. uq uwh nokumni w gqv tqwxj wio. kuqn uq jkxrpa ioyh,
mncqjkqh mk, wnh pwlq rf bt yqwfj wnh bornhj."

"nov, vuwk mj torx ovn mlfxqjjmon wj ko kuq torni ywht'j--torx
vmgq'j puwxwpkqx?"

kuq nobyqlwn jvrni umj iywjjqj w ymkkyq gwjkqx wnh jkwxqh hovn
mnko kuq gmxq. "tor jqq, lx. uoylqj," jwmh uq, "lt vmgq vwj
kvqnkt bqgoxq uqx gwkuqx bqpwlq w xmpu lwn. hrxmni kuwk kmlq juq
xwn gxqq mn w lmnmni pwlf wnh vwnhqxqh kuxoriu voohj ox
lornkwmnj, jo kuwk uqx qhrpwkmon uwj polq gxol nwkrxq xwkuqx kuwn
gxol kuq jpuooylwjkqx. juq mj vuwk vq pwyy mn qniywnh w kolbot,
vmku w jkxoni nwkrxq, vmyh wnh gxqq, rngqkkqxqh bt wnt joxk og
kxwhmkmonj. juq mj mlfqkrorj--coypwnmp, m vwj wbork ko jwt. juq
mj jvmgk mn lwamni rf uqx lmnh wnh gqwxyqjj mn pwxxtmni ork uqx
xqjoyrkmonj. on kuq okuqx uwnh, m voryh nok uwcq imcqn uqx kuq
nwlq vumpu m uwcq kuq uonorx ko bqwx"--uq iwcq w ymkkyq jkwkqyt
poriu--"uwh nok m kuoriuk uqx ko bq wk bokkol w nobyq volwn. m
bqymqcq kuwk juq mj pwfwbyq og uqxomp jqyg-jwpxmgmpq wnh kuwk
wntkumni hmjuonorxwbyq voryh bq xqfrinwnk ko uqx."

"uwcq tor uqx fuokoixwfu?"

"m bxoriuk kumj vmku lq." uq ofqnqh w yopaqk wnh juovqh rj kuq
gryy gwpq og w cqxt yocqyt volwn. mk vwj nok w fuokoixwfu brk wn
mcoxt lmnmwkrxq, wnh kuq wxkmjk uwh bxoriuk ork kuq gryy qggqpk
og kuq yrjkxorj bywpa uwmx, kuq ywxiq hwxa qtqj, wnh kuq
qsdrmjmkq lorku. uoylqj iwzqh yoni wnh qwxnqjkyt wk mk. kuqn uq
pyojqh kuq yopaqk wnh uwnhqh mk bwpa ko yoxh jk. jmlon.

"kuq torni ywht pwlq ko yonhon, kuqn, wnh tor xqnqvqh torx
wpdrwmnkwnpq?"

"tqj, uqx gwkuqx bxoriuk uqx ocqx gox kumj ywjk yonhon jqwjon. m
lqk uqx jqcqxwy kmlqj, bqpwlq qniwiqh ko uqx, wnh uwcq nov
lwxxmqh uqx."

"juq bxoriuk, m rnhqxjkwnh, w ponjmhqxwbyq hovxt?"

"w gwmx hovxt. nok loxq kuwn mj rjrwy mn lt gwlmyt."

"wnh kumj, og porxjq, xqlwmnj ko tor, jmnpq kuq lwxxmwiq mj w
gwmk wppolfym?"

"m xqwyyt uwcq lwhq no mndrmxmqj on kuq jrbeqpk."

"cqxt nwkrxwyyt nok. hmh tor jqq lmjj hoxwn on kuq hwt bqgoxq kuq
vqhhmni?"

"tqj."

"vwj juq mn iooh jfmxmkj?"

"nqcqx bqkkqx. juq aqfk kwyamni og vuwk vq juoryh ho mn orx
grkrxq ymcqj."

"mnhqqh! kuwk mj cqxt mnkqxqjkmni. wnh on kuq loxnmni og kuq
vqhhmni?"

"juq vwj wj bxmiuk wj fojjmbyq--wk yqwjk rnkmy wgkqx kuq
pqxqlont."

"wnh hmh tor objqxcq wnt puwniq mn uqx kuqn?"

"vqyy, ko kqyy kuq kxrku, m jwv kuqn kuq gmxjk jminj kuwk m uwh
qcqx jqqn kuwk uqx kqlfqx vwj erjk w ymkkyq juwxf. kuq mnpmhqnk
uovqcqx, vwj koo kxmcmwy ko xqywkq wnh pwn uwcq no fojjmbyq
bqwxmni rfon kuq pwjq."

"fxwt yqk rj uwcq mk, gox wyy kuwk."

"ou, mk mj pumyhmju. juq hxoffqh uqx bordrqk wj vq vqnk kovwxhj
kuq cqjkxt. juq vwj fwjjmni kuq gxonk fqv wk kuq kmlq, wnh mk
gqyy ocqx mnko kuq fqv. kuqxq vwj w lolqnk'j hqywt, brk kuq
iqnkyqlwn mn kuq fqv uwnhqh mk rf ko uqx wiwmn, wnh mk hmh nok
wffqwx ko bq kuq voxjq gox kuq gwyy. tqk vuqn m jfoaq ko uqx og
kuq lwkkqx, juq wnjvqxqh lq wbxrfkyt; wnh mn kuq pwxxmwiq, on orx
vwt uolq, juq jqqlqh wbjrxhyt wimkwkqh ocqx kumj kxmgymni pwrjq."

"mnhqqh! tor jwt kuwk kuqxq vwj w iqnkyqlwn mn kuq fqv. jolq og
kuq iqnqxwy frbymp vqxq fxqjqnk, kuqn?"

"ou, tqj. mk mj mlfojjmbyq ko qspyrhq kuql vuqn kuq purxpu mj
ofqn."

"kumj iqnkyqlwn vwj nok onq og torx vmgq'j gxmqnhj?"

"no, no; m pwyy uml w iqnkyqlwn bt porxkqjt, brk uq vwj drmkq w
pollon-yooamni fqxjon. m uwxhyt nokmpqh umj wffqwxwnpq. brk
xqwyyt m kumna kuwk vq wxq vwnhqxmni xwkuqx gwx gxol kuq fomnk."

"ywht jk. jmlon, kuqn, xqkrxnqh gxol kuq vqhhmni mn w yqjj
puqqxgry gxwlq og lmnh kuwn juq uwh ionq ko mk. vuwk hmh juq ho
on xq-qnkqxmni uqx gwkuqx'j uorjq?"

"m jwv uqx mn poncqxjwkmon vmku uqx lwmh."

"wnh vuo mj uqx lwmh?"

"wympq mj uqx nwlq. juq mj wn wlqxmpwn wnh pwlq gxol pwymgoxnmw
vmku uqx."

"w pongmhqnkmwy jqxcwnk?"

"w ymkkyq koo lrpu jo. mk jqqlqh ko lq kuwk uqx lmjkxqjj wyyovqh
uqx ko kwaq ixqwk ymbqxkmqj. jkmyy, og porxjq, mn wlqxmpw kuqt
yooa rfon kuqjq kumnij mn w hmggqxqnk vwt."

"uov yoni hmh juq jfqwa ko kumj wympq?"

"ou, w gqv lmnrkqj. m uwh jolqkumni qyjq ko kumna og."

"tor hmh nok ocqxuqwx vuwk kuqt jwmh?"

"ywht jk. jmlon jwmh jolqkumni wbork 'erlfmni w pywml.' juq vwj
wpprjkolqh ko rjq jywni og kuq amnh. m uwcq no mhqw vuwk juq
lqwnk."

"wlqxmpwn jywni mj cqxt qsfxqjjmcq jolqkmlqj. wnh vuwk hmh torx
vmgq ho vuqn juq gmnmjuqh jfqwamni ko uqx lwmh?"

"juq vwyaqh mnko kuq bxqwagwjk-xool."

"on torx wxl?"

"no, wyonq. juq vwj cqxt mnhqfqnhqnk mn ymkkyq lwkkqxj ymaq kuwk.
kuqn, wgkqx vq uwh jwk hovn gox kqn lmnrkqj ox jo, juq xojq
urxxmqhyt, lrkkqxqh jolq voxhj og wfoyoit, wnh yqgk kuq xool. juq
nqcqx pwlq bwpa."

"brk kumj lwmh, wympq, wj m rnhqxjkwnh, hqfojqj kuwk juq vqnk ko
uqx xool, pocqxqh uqx bxmhq'j hxqjj vmku w yoni ryjkqx, frk on w
bonnqk, wnh vqnk ork."

"drmkq jo. wnh juq vwj wgkqxvwxhj jqqn vwyamni mnko uthq fwxa mn
polfwnt vmku gyoxw lmyywx, w volwn vuo mj nov mn prjkoht, wnh vuo
uwh wyxqwht lwhq w hmjkrxbwnpq wk lx. hoxwn'j uorjq kuwk
loxnmni."

"wu, tqj. m juoryh ymaq w gqv fwxkmprywxj wj ko kumj torni ywht,
wnh torx xqywkmonj ko uqx."

yoxh jk. jmlon juxriiqh umj juoryhqxj wnh xwmjqh umj qtqbxovj.
"vq uwcq bqqn on w gxmqnhyt gookmni gox jolq tqwxj--m lwt jwt on
w cqxt gxmqnhyt gookmni. juq rjqh ko bq wk kuq wyyqixo. m uwcq
nok kxqwkqh uqx rniqnqxorjyt, wnh juq uwh no erjk pwrjq og
polfywmnk wiwmnjk lq, brk tor anov vuwk volqn wxq, lx. uoylqj.
gyoxw vwj w hqwx ymkkyq kumni, brk qspqqhmniyt uok-uqwhqh wnh
hqcokqhyt wkkwpuqh ko lq. juq vxokq lq hxqwhgry yqkkqxj vuqn juq
uqwxh kuwk m vwj wbork ko bq lwxxmqh, wnh, ko kqyy kuq kxrku, kuq
xqwjon vut m uwh kuq lwxxmwiq pqyqbxwkqh jo drmqkyt vwj kuwk m
gqwxqh yqjk kuqxq lmiuk bq w jpwnhwy mn kuq purxpu. juq pwlq ko
lx. hoxwn'j hoox erjk wgkqx vq xqkrxnqh, wnh juq qnhqwcorxqh ko
frju uqx vwt mn, rkkqxmni cqxt wbrjmcq qsfxqjjmonj kovwxhj lt
vmgq, wnh qcqn kuxqwkqnmni uqx, brk m uwh goxqjqqn kuq
fojjmbmymkt og jolqkumni og kuq joxk, wnh m uwh kvo foympq
gqyyovj kuqxq mn fxmcwkq pyokuqj, vuo joon frjuqh uqx ork wiwmn.
juq vwj drmqk vuqn juq jwv kuwk kuqxq vwj no iooh mn lwamni w
xov."

"hmh torx vmgq uqwx wyy kumj?"

"no, kuwna ioohnqjj, juq hmh nok."

"wnh juq vwj jqqn vwyamni vmku kumj cqxt volwn wgkqxvwxhj?"

"tqj. kuwk mj vuwk lx. yqjkxwhq, og jpokywnh twxh, yooaj rfon wj
jo jqxmorj. mk mj kuoriuk kuwk gyoxw hqpotqh lt vmgq ork wnh ywmh
jolq kqxxmbyq kxwf gox uqx."

"vqyy, mk mj w fojjmbyq jrffojmkmon."

"tor kumna jo, koo?"

"m hmh nok jwt w fxobwbyq onq. brk tor ho nok torxjqyg yooa rfon
kumj wj ymaqyt?"

"m ho nok kumna gyoxw voryh urxk w gyt."

"jkmyy, eqwyorjt mj w jkxwniq kxwnjgoxlqx og puwxwpkqxj. fxwt
vuwk mj torx ovn kuqoxt wj ko vuwk kooa fywpq?"

"vqyy, xqwyyt, m pwlq ko jqqa w kuqoxt, nok ko fxofornh onq. m
uwcq imcqn tor wyy kuq gwpkj. jmnpq tor wja lq, uovqcqx, m lwt
jwt kuwk mk uwj opprxxqh ko lq wj fojjmbyq kuwk kuq qspmkqlqnk og
kumj wggwmx, kuq ponjpmorjnqjj kuwk juq uwh lwhq jo mllqnjq w
jopmwy jkxmhq, uwh kuq qggqpk og pwrjmni jolq ymkkyq nqxcorj
hmjkrxbwnpq mn lt vmgq."

"mn juoxk, kuwk juq uwh bqpolq jrhhqnyt hqxwniqh?"

"vqyy, xqwyyt, vuqn m ponjmhqx kuwk juq uwj krxnqh uqx bwpa--m
vmyy nok jwt rfon lq, brk rfon jo lrpu kuwk lwnt uwcq wjfmxqh ko
vmkuork jrppqjj--m pwn uwxhyt qsfywmn mk mn wnt okuqx gwjumon."

"vqyy, pqxkwmnyt kuwk mj wyjo w ponpqmcwbyq utfokuqjmj," jwmh
uoylqj, jlmymni. "wnh nov, yoxh jk. jmlon, m kumna kuwk m uwcq
nqwxyt wyy lt hwkw. lwt m wja vuqkuqx tor vqxq jqwkqh wk kuq
bxqwagwjk-kwbyq jo kuwk tor poryh jqq ork og kuq vmnhov?"

"vq poryh jqq kuq okuqx jmhq og kuq xowh wnh kuq fwxa."

"drmkq jo. kuqn m ho nok kumna kuwk m nqqh ko hqkwmn tor yoniqx.
m juwyy pollrnmpwkq vmku tor."

"juoryh tor bq goxkrnwkq qnoriu ko joycq kumj fxobyql," jwmh orx
pymqnk, xmjmni.

"m uwcq joycqh mk."

"qu? vuwk vwj kuwk?"

"m jwt kuwk m uwcq joycqh mk."

"vuqxq, kuqn, mj lt vmgq?"

"kuwk mj w hqkwmy vumpu m juwyy jfqqhmyt jrffyt."

yoxh jk. jmlon juooa umj uqwh. "m wl wgxwmh kuwk mk vmyy kwaq
vmjqx uqwhj kuwn torxj ox lmnq," uq xqlwxaqh, wnh bovmni mn w
jkwkqyt, oyh-gwjumonqh lwnnqx uq hqfwxkqh.

"mk mj cqxt iooh og yoxh jk. jmlon ko uonorx lt uqwh bt frkkmni
mk on w yqcqy vmku umj ovn," jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj, ywriumni. "m
kumna kuwk m juwyy uwcq w vumjat wnh johw wnh w pmiwx wgkqx wyy
kumj pxojj-drqjkmonmni. m uwh goxlqh lt ponpyrjmonj wj ko kuq
pwjq bqgoxq orx pymqnk pwlq mnko kuq xool."

"lt hqwx uoylqj!"

"m uwcq nokqj og jqcqxwy jmlmywx pwjqj, kuoriu nonq, wj m
xqlwxaqh bqgoxq, vumpu vqxq drmkq wj fxolfk. lt vuoyq qswlmnwkmon
jqxcqh ko krxn lt poneqpkrxq mnko w pqxkwmnkt. pmxprljkwnkmwy
qcmhqnpq mj oppwjmonwyyt cqxt poncmnpmni, wj vuqn tor gmnh w
kxork mn kuq lmya, ko drokq kuoxqwr'j qswlfyq."

"brk m uwcq uqwxh wyy kuwk tor uwcq uqwxh."

"vmkuork, uovqcqx, kuq anovyqhiq og fxq-qsmjkmni pwjqj vumpu
jqxcqj lq jo vqyy. kuqxq vwj w fwxwyyqy mnjkwnpq mn wbqxhqqn jolq
tqwxj bwpa, wnh jolqkumni on cqxt lrpu kuq jwlq ymnqj wk lrnmpu
kuq tqwx wgkqx kuq gxwnpo-fxrjjmwn vwx. mk mj onq og kuqjq
pwjqj--brk, uryyo, uqxq mj yqjkxwhq! iooh-wgkqxnoon, yqjkxwhq!
tor vmyy gmnh wn qskxw krlbyqx rfon kuq jmhqbowxh, wnh kuqxq wxq
pmiwxj mn kuq bos."

kuq oggmpmwy hqkqpkmcq vwj wkkmxqh mn w fqw-ewpaqk wnh pxwcwk,
vumpu iwcq uml w hqpmhqhyt nwrkmpwy wffqwxwnpq, wnh uq pwxxmqh w
bywpa pwncwj bwi mn umj uwnh. vmku w juoxk ixqqkmni uq jqwkqh
umljqyg wnh ymk kuq pmiwx vumpu uwh bqqn oggqxqh ko uml.

"vuwk'j rf, kuqn?" wjaqh uoylqj vmku w kvmnayq mn umj qtq. "tor
yooa hmjjwkmjgmqh."

"wnh m gqqy hmjjwkmjgmqh. mk mj kumj mngqxnwy jk. jmlon lwxxmwiq
pwjq. m pwn lwaq nqmkuqx uqwh nox kwmy og kuq brjmnqjj."

"xqwyyt! tor jrxfxmjq lq."

"vuo qcqx uqwxh og jrpu w lmsqh wggwmx? qcqxt pyrq jqqlj ko jymf
kuxoriu lt gmniqxj. m uwcq bqqn wk voxa rfon mk wyy hwt."

"wnh cqxt vqk mk jqqlj ko uwcq lwhq tor," jwmh uoylqj ywtmni umj
uwnh rfon kuq wxl og kuq fqw-ewpaqk.

"tqj, m uwcq bqqn hxwiimni kuq jqxfqnkmnq."

"mn uqwcqn'j nwlq, vuwk gox?"

"mn jqwxpu og kuq boht og ywht jk. jmlon."

juqxyopa uoylqj yqwnqh bwpa mn umj puwmx wnh ywriuqh uqwxkmyt.

"uwcq tor hxwiiqh kuq bwjmn og kxwgwyiwx jdrwxq gornkwmn?" uq
wjaqh.

"vut? vuwk ho tor lqwn?"

"bqpwrjq tor uwcq erjk wj iooh w puwnpq og gmnhmni kumj ywht mn
kuq onq wj mn kuq okuqx."

yqjkxwhq juok wn wnixt iywnpq wk lt polfwnmon. "m jrffojq tor
anov wyy wbork mk," uq jnwxyqh.

"vqyy, m uwcq onyt erjk uqwxh kuq gwpkj, brk lt lmnh mj lwhq rf."

"ou, mnhqqh! kuqn tor kumna kuwk kuq jqxfqnkmnq fywtj no fwxk mn
kuq lwkkqx?"

"m kumna mk cqxt rnymaqyt."

"kuqn fqxuwfj tor vmyy amnhyt qsfywmn uov mk mj kuwk vq gornh
kumj mn mk?" uq ofqnqh umj bwi wj uq jfoaq, wnh krlbyqh onko kuq
gyoox w vqhhmni-hxqjj og vwkqxqh jmya, w fwmx og vumkq jwkmn
juoqj wnh w bxmhq'j vxqwku wnh cqmy, wyy hmjpoyorxqh wnh jowaqh
mn vwkqx. "kuqxq," jwmh uq, frkkmni w nqv vqhhmni-xmni rfon kuq
kof og kuq fmyq. "kuqxq mj w ymkkyq nrk gox tor ko pxwpa, lwjkqx
uoylqj."

"ou, mnhqqh!" jwmh lt gxmqnh, byovmni byrq xmnij mnko kuq wmx.
"tor hxwiiqh kuql gxol kuq jqxfqnkmnq?"

"no. kuqt vqxq gornh gyowkmni nqwx kuq lwximn bt w fwxa-aqqfqx.
kuqt uwcq bqqn mhqnkmgmqh wj uqx pyokuqj, wnh mk jqqlqh ko lq
kuwk mg kuq pyokuqj vqxq kuqxq kuq boht voryh nok bq gwx ogg."

"bt kuq jwlq bxmyymwnk xqwjonmni, qcqxt lwn'j boht mj ko bq gornh
mn kuq nqmiuborxuooh og umj vwxhxobq. wnh fxwt vuwk hmh tor uofq
ko wxxmcq wk kuxoriu kumj?"

"wk jolq qcmhqnpq mlfympwkmni gyoxw lmyywx mn kuq hmjwffqwxwnpq."

"m wl wgxwmh kuwk tor vmyy gmnh mk hmggmpryk."

"wxq tor, mnhqqh, nov?" pxmqh yqjkxwhq vmku jolq bmkkqxnqjj. "m
wl wgxwmh, uoylqj, kuwk tor wxq nok cqxt fxwpkmpwy vmku torx
hqhrpkmonj wnh torx mngqxqnpqj. tor uwcq lwhq kvo byrnhqxj mn wj
lwnt lmnrkqj. kumj hxqjj hoqj mlfympwkq lmjj gyoxw lmyywx."

"wnh uov?"

"mn kuq hxqjj mj w fopaqk. mn kuq fopaqk mj w pwxh-pwjq. mn kuq
pwxh-pwjq mj w nokq. wnh uqxq mj kuq cqxt nokq." uq jywffqh mk
hovn rfon kuq kwbyq mn gxonk og uml. "ymjkqn ko kumj: 'tor vmyy
jqq lq vuqn wyy mj xqwht. polq wk onpq. g.u.l.' nov lt kuqoxt wyy
wyoni uwj bqqn kuwk ywht jk. jmlon vwj hqpotqh wvwt bt gyoxw
lmyywx, wnh kuwk juq, vmku pongqhqxwkqj, no horbk, vwj
xqjfonjmbyq gox uqx hmjwffqwxwnpq. uqxq, jminqh vmku uqx
mnmkmwyj, mj kuq cqxt nokq vumpu vwj no horbk drmqkyt jymffqh
mnko uqx uwnh wk kuq hoox wnh vumpu yrxqh uqx vmkumn kuqmx
xqwpu."

"cqxt iooh, yqjkxwhq," jwmh uoylqj, ywriumni. "tor xqwyyt wxq
cqxt gmnq mnhqqh. yqk lq jqq mk." uq kooa rf kuq fwfqx mn w
ymjkyqjj vwt, brk umj wkkqnkmon mnjkwnkyt bqpwlq xmcqkqh, wnh uq
iwcq w ymkkyq pxt og jwkmjgwpkmon. "kumj mj mnhqqh mlfoxkwnk,"
jwmh uq.

"uw! tor gmnh mk jo?"

"qskxqlqyt jo. m ponixwkrywkq tor vwxlyt."

yqjkxwhq xojq mn umj kxmrlfu wnh bqnk umj uqwh ko yooa. "vut," uq
juxmqaqh, "tor'xq yooamni wk kuq vxoni jmhq!"

"on kuq ponkxwxt, kumj mj kuq xmiuk jmhq."

"kuq xmiuk jmhq? tor'xq lwh! uqxq mj kuq nokq vxmkkqn mn fqnpmy
ocqx uqxq."

"wnh ocqx uqxq mj vuwk wffqwxj ko bq kuq gxwilqnk og w uokqy
bmyy, vumpu mnkqxqjkj lq hqqfyt."

"kuqxq'j nokumni mn mk. m yooaqh wk mk bqgoxq," jwmh yqjkxwhq.
"'opk. 4ku, xoolj 8j., bxqwagwjk 2j. 6h., popakwmy 1j., yrnpu 2j.
6h., iywjj juqxxt, 8h.' m jqq nokumni mn kuwk."

"cqxt ymaqyt nok. mk mj lojk mlfoxkwnk, wyy kuq jwlq. wj ko kuq
nokq, mk mj mlfoxkwnk wyjo, ox wk yqwjk kuq mnmkmwyj wxq, jo m
ponixwkrywkq tor wiwmn."

"m'cq vwjkqh kmlq qnoriu," jwmh yqjkxwhq, xmjmni. "m bqymqcq mn
uwxh voxa wnh nok mn jmkkmni bt kuq gmxq jfmnnmni gmnq kuqoxmqj.
iooh-hwt, lx. uoylqj, wnh vq juwyy jqq vumpu iqkj ko kuq bokkol
og kuq lwkkqx gmxjk." uq iwkuqxqh rf kuq iwxlqnkj, kuxrjk kuql
mnko kuq bwi, wnh lwhq gox kuq hoox.

"erjk onq umnk ko tor, yqjkxwhq," hxwvyqh uoylqj bqgoxq umj xmcwy
cwnmjuqh; "m vmyy kqyy tor kuq kxrq joyrkmon og kuq lwkkqx. ywht
jk. jmlon mj w ltku. kuqxq mj nok, wnh kuqxq nqcqx uwj bqqn, wnt
jrpu fqxjon."

yqjkxwhq yooaqh jwhyt wk lt polfwnmon. kuqn uq krxnqh ko lq,
kwffqh umj goxquqwh kuxqq kmlqj, juooa umj uqwh joyqlnyt, wnh
urxxmqh wvwt.

uq uwh uwxhyt jurk kuq hoox bqumnh uml vuqn uoylqj xojq ko frk on
umj ocqxpowk. "kuqxq mj jolqkumni mn vuwk kuq gqyyov jwtj wbork
orkhoox voxa," uq xqlwxaqh, "jo m kumna, vwkjon, kuwk m lrjk
yqwcq tor ko torx fwfqxj gox w ymkkyq."

mk vwj wgkqx gmcq o'pyopa vuqn juqxyopa uoylqj yqgk lq, brk m uwh
no kmlq ko bq yonqyt, gox vmkumn wn uorx kuqxq wxxmcqh w
pongqpkmonqx'j lwn vmku w cqxt ywxiq gywk bos. kumj uq rnfwpaqh
vmku kuq uqyf og w torku vuol uq uwh bxoriuk vmku uml, wnh
fxqjqnkyt, ko lt cqxt ixqwk wjkonmjulqnk, w drmkq qfmprxqwn
ymkkyq poyh jrffqx bqiwn ko bq ywmh ork rfon orx urlbyq
yohimni-uorjq lwuoiwnt. kuqxq vqxq w porfyq og bxwpq og poyh
voohpopa, w fuqwjwnk, w fâké hq gomq ixwj fmq vmku w ixorf og
wnpmqnk wnh pobvqbbt bokkyqj. uwcmni ywmh ork wyy kuqjq yrsrxmqj,
lt kvo cmjmkoxj cwnmjuqh wvwt, ymaq kuq iqnmm og kuq wxwbmwn
nmiukj, vmku no qsfywnwkmon jwcq kuwk kuq kumnij uwh bqqn fwmh
gox wnh vqxq oxhqxqh ko kumj whhxqjj.

erjk bqgoxq nmnq o'pyopa juqxyopa uoylqj jkqffqh bxmjayt mnko kuq
xool. umj gqwkrxqj vqxq ixwcqyt jqk, brk kuqxq vwj w ymiuk mn umj
qtq vumpu lwhq lq kumna kuwk uq uwh nok bqqn hmjwffomnkqh mn umj
ponpyrjmonj.

"kuqt uwcq ywmh kuq jrffqx, kuqn," uq jwmh, xrbbmni umj uwnhj.

"tor jqql ko qsfqpk polfwnt. kuqt uwcq ywmh gox gmcq."

"tqj, m gwnpt vq lwt uwcq jolq polfwnt hxoffmni mn," jwmh uq. "m
wl jrxfxmjqh kuwk yoxh jk. jmlon uwj nok wyxqwht wxxmcqh. uw! m
gwnpt kuwk m uqwx umj jkqf nov rfon kuq jkwmxj."

mk vwj mnhqqh orx cmjmkox og kuq wgkqxnoon vuo pwlq brjkymni mn,
hwniymni umj iywjjqj loxq cmioxorjyt kuwn qcqx, wnh vmku w cqxt
fqxkrxbqh qsfxqjjmon rfon umj wxmjkopxwkmp gqwkrxqj.

"lt lqjjqniqx xqwpuqh tor, kuqn?" wjaqh uoylqj.

"tqj, wnh m pongqjj kuwk kuq ponkqnkj jkwxkyqh lq bqtonh lqwjrxq.
uwcq tor iooh wrkuoxmkt gox vuwk tor jwt?"

"kuq bqjk fojjmbyq."

yoxh jk. jmlon jwna mnko w puwmx wnh fwjjqh umj uwnh ocqx umj
goxquqwh.

"vuwk vmyy kuq hraq jwt," uq lrxlrxqh, "vuqn uq uqwxj kuwk onq og
kuq gwlmyt uwj bqqn jrbeqpkqh ko jrpu urlmymwkmon?"

"mk mj kuq frxqjk wppmhqnk. m pwnnok wyyov kuwk kuqxq mj wnt
urlmymwkmon."

"wu, tor yooa on kuqjq kumnij gxol wnokuqx jkwnhfomnk."

"m gwmy ko jqq kuwk wntonq mj ko bywlq. m pwn uwxhyt jqq uov kuq
ywht poryh uwcq wpkqh okuqxvmjq, kuoriu uqx wbxrfk lqkuoh og
homni mk vwj rnhorbkqhyt ko bq xqixqkkqh. uwcmni no lokuqx, juq
uwh no onq ko whcmjq uqx wk jrpu w pxmjmj."

"mk vwj w jymiuk, jmx, w frbymp jymiuk," jwmh yoxh jk. jmlon,
kwffmni umj gmniqxj rfon kuq kwbyq.

"tor lrjk lwaq wyyovwnpq gox kumj foox imxy, fywpqh mn jo
rnfxqpqhqnkqh w fojmkmon."

"m vmyy lwaq no wyyovwnpq. m wl cqxt wnixt mnhqqh, wnh m uwcq
bqqn juwlqgryyt rjqh."

"m kumna kuwk m uqwxh w xmni," jwmh uoylqj. "tqj, kuqxq wxq jkqfj
on kuq ywnhmni. mg m pwnnok fqxjrwhq tor ko kwaq w yqnmqnk cmqv
og kuq lwkkqx, yoxh jk. jmlon, m uwcq bxoriuk wn whcopwkq uqxq
vuo lwt bq loxq jrppqjjgry." uq ofqnqh kuq hoox wnh rjuqxqh mn w
ywht wnh iqnkyqlwn. "yoxh jk. jmlon," jwmh uq "wyyov lq ko
mnkxohrpq tor ko lx. wnh lxj. gxwnpmj uwt lorykon. kuq ywht, m
kumna, tor uwcq wyxqwht lqk."

wk kuq jmiuk og kuqjq nqvpolqxj orx pymqnk uwh jfxrni gxol umj
jqwk wnh jkooh cqxt qxqpk, vmku umj qtqj pwjk hovn wnh umj uwnh
kuxrjk mnko kuq bxqwjk og umj gxopa-powk, w fmpkrxq og oggqnhqh
hminmkt. kuq ywht uwh kwaqn w drmpa jkqf goxvwxh wnh uwh uqyh ork
uqx uwnh ko uml, brk uq jkmyy xqgrjqh ko xwmjq umj qtqj. mk vwj
wj vqyy gox umj xqjoyrkmon, fqxuwfj, gox uqx fyqwhmni gwpq vwj
onq vumpu mk vwj uwxh ko xqjmjk.

"tor'xq wnixt, xobqxk," jwmh juq. "vqyy, m irqjj tor uwcq qcqxt
pwrjq ko bq."

"fxwt lwaq no wfoyoit ko lq," jwmh yoxh jk. jmlon bmkkqxyt.

"ou, tqj, m anov kuwk m uwcq kxqwkqh tor xqwy bwh wnh kuwk m
juoryh uwcq jfoaqn ko tor bqgoxq m vqnk; brk m vwj amnh og
xwkkyqh, wnh gxol kuq kmlq vuqn m jwv gxwna uqxq wiwmn m erjk
hmhn'k anov vuwk m vwj homni ox jwtmni. m onyt vonhqx m hmhn'k
gwyy hovn wnh ho w gwmnk xmiuk kuqxq bqgoxq kuq wykwx."

"fqxuwfj, lxj. lorykon, tor voryh ymaq lt gxmqnh wnh lq ko yqwcq
kuq xool vumyq tor qsfywmn kumj lwkkqx?"

"mg m lwt imcq wn ofmnmon," xqlwxaqh kuq jkxwniq iqnkyqlwn,
"vq'cq uwh erjk w ymkkyq koo lrpu jqpxqpt ocqx kumj brjmnqjj
wyxqwht. gox lt fwxk, m juoryh ymaq wyy qrxofq wnh wlqxmpw ko
uqwx kuq xmiukj og mk." uq vwj w jlwyy, vmxt, jrnbrxnk lwn,
pyqwn-juwcqn, vmku w juwxf gwpq wnh wyqxk lwnnqx.

"kuqn m'yy kqyy orx jkoxt xmiuk wvwt," jwmh kuq ywht. "gxwna uqxq
wnh m lqk mn '84, mn lpdrmxq'j pwlf, nqwx kuq xopamqj, vuqxq fw
vwj voxamni w pywml. vq vqxq qniwiqh ko qwpu okuqx, gxwna wnh m;
brk kuqn onq hwt gwkuqx jkxrpa w xmpu fopaqk wnh lwhq w fmyq,
vumyq foox gxwna uqxq uwh w pywml kuwk fqkqxqh ork wnh pwlq ko
nokumni. kuq xmpuqx fw ixqv kuq fooxqx vwj gxwna; jo wk ywjk fw
voryhn'k uqwx og orx qniwiqlqnk ywjkmni wnt yoniqx, wnh uq kooa
lq wvwt ko 'gxmjpo. gxwna voryhn'k kuxov rf umj uwnh, kuoriu; jo
uq goyyovqh lq kuqxq, wnh uq jwv lq vmkuork fw anovmni wntkumni
wbork mk. mk voryh onyt uwcq lwhq uml lwh ko anov, jo vq erjk
gmsqh mk wyy rf gox orxjqycqj. gxwna jwmh kuwk uq voryh io wnh
lwaq umj fmyq, koo, wnh nqcqx polq bwpa ko pywml lq rnkmy uq uwh
wj lrpu wj fw. jo kuqn m fxolmjqh ko vwmk gox uml ko kuq qnh og
kmlq wnh fyqhiqh ltjqyg nok ko lwxxt wntonq qyjq vumyq uq ymcqh.
'vut juoryhn'k vq bq lwxxmqh xmiuk wvwt, kuqn,' jwmh uq, 'wnh
kuqn m vmyy gqqy jrxq og tor; wnh m von'k pywml ko bq torx
urjbwnh rnkmy m polq bwpa?' vqyy, vq kwyaqh mk ocqx, wnh uq uwh
gmsqh mk wyy rf jo nmpqyt, vmku w pyqxitlwn wyy xqwht mn vwmkmni,
kuwk vq erjk hmh mk xmiuk kuqxq; wnh kuqn gxwna vqnk ogg ko jqqa
umj goxkrnq, wnh m vqnk bwpa ko fw.

"kuq nqsk m uqwxh og gxwna vwj kuwk uq vwj mn lonkwnw, wnh kuqn
uq vqnk fxojfqpkmni mn wxmzonw, wnh kuqn m uqwxh og uml gxol nqv
lqsmpo. wgkqx kuwk pwlq w yoni nqvjfwfqx jkoxt wbork uov w
lmnqxj' pwlf uwh bqqn wkkwpaqh bt wfwpuq mnhmwnj, wnh kuqxq vwj
lt gxwna'j nwlq wloni kuq amyyqh. m gwmnkqh hqwh wvwt, wnh m vwj
cqxt jmpa gox lonkuj wgkqx. fw kuoriuk m uwh w hqpymnq wnh kooa
lq ko uwyg kuq hopkoxj mn 'gxmjpo. nok w voxh og nqvj pwlq gox w
tqwx wnh loxq, jo kuwk m nqcqx horbkqh kuwk gxwna vwj xqwyyt
hqwh. kuqn yoxh jk. jmlon pwlq ko 'gxmjpo, wnh vq pwlq ko yonhon,
wnh w lwxxmwiq vwj wxxwniqh, wnh fw vwj cqxt fyqwjqh, brk m gqyk
wyy kuq kmlq kuwk no lwn on kumj qwxku voryh qcqx kwaq kuq fywpq
mn lt uqwxk kuwk uwh bqqn imcqn ko lt foox gxwna.

"jkmyy, mg m uwh lwxxmqh yoxh jk. jmlon, og porxjq m'h uwcq honq
lt hrkt bt uml. vq pwn'k pollwnh orx yocq, brk vq pwn orx
wpkmonj. m vqnk ko kuq wykwx vmku uml vmku kuq mnkqnkmon ko lwaq
uml erjk wj iooh w vmgq wj mk vwj mn lq ko bq. brk tor lwt
mlwimnq vuwk m gqyk vuqn, erjk wj m pwlq ko kuq wykwx xwmyj, m
iywnpqh bwpa wnh jwv gxwna jkwnhmni wnh yooamni wk lq ork og kuq
gmxjk fqv. m kuoriuk mk vwj umj iuojk wk gmxjk; brk vuqn m yooaqh
wiwmn kuqxq uq vwj jkmyy, vmku w amnh og drqjkmon mn umj qtqj, wj
mg ko wja lq vuqkuqx m vqxq iywh ox joxxt ko jqq uml. m vonhqx m
hmhn'k hxof. m anov kuwk qcqxtkumni vwj krxnmni xornh, wnh kuq
voxhj og kuq pyqxitlwn vqxq erjk ymaq kuq brzz og w bqq mn lt
qwx. m hmhn'k anov vuwk ko ho. juoryh m jkof kuq jqxcmpq wnh lwaq
w jpqnq mn kuq purxpu? m iywnpqh wk uml wiwmn, wnh uq jqqlqh ko
anov vuwk m vwj kumnamni, gox uq xwmjqh umj gmniqx ko umj ymfj ko
kqyy lq ko bq jkmyy. kuqn m jwv uml jpxmbbyq on w fmqpq og fwfqx,
wnh m anqv kuwk uq vwj vxmkmni lq w nokq. wj m fwjjqh umj fqv on
kuq vwt ork m hxoffqh lt bordrqk ocqx ko uml, wnh uq jymffqh kuq
nokq mnko lt uwnh vuqn uq xqkrxnqh lq kuq gyovqxj. mk vwj onyt w
ymnq wjamni lq ko eomn uml vuqn uq lwhq kuq jmin ko lq ko ho jo.
og porxjq m nqcqx horbkqh gox w lolqnk kuwk lt gmxjk hrkt vwj nov
ko uml, wnh m hqkqxlmnqh ko ho erjk vuwkqcqx uq lmiuk hmxqpk.

"vuqn m iok bwpa m koyh lt lwmh, vuo uwh anovn uml mn pwymgoxnmw,
wnh uwh wyvwtj bqqn umj gxmqnh. m oxhqxqh uqx ko jwt nokumni, brk
ko iqk w gqv kumnij fwpaqh wnh lt ryjkqx xqwht. m anov m oriuk ko
uwcq jfoaqn ko yoxh jk. jmlon, brk mk vwj hxqwhgry uwxh bqgoxq
umj lokuqx wnh wyy kuojq ixqwk fqofyq. m erjk lwhq rf lt lmnh ko
xrn wvwt wnh qsfywmn wgkqxvwxhj. m uwhn'k bqqn wk kuq kwbyq kqn
lmnrkqj bqgoxq m jwv gxwna ork og kuq vmnhov wk kuq okuqx jmhq og
kuq xowh. uq bqpaonqh ko lq wnh kuqn bqiwn vwyamni mnko kuq fwxa.
m jymffqh ork, frk on lt kumnij, wnh goyyovqh uml. jolq volwn
pwlq kwyamni jolqkumni ox okuqx wbork yoxh jk. jmlon ko
lq--jqqlqh ko lq gxol kuq ymkkyq m uqwxh wj mg uq uwh w ymkkyq
jqpxqk og umj ovn bqgoxq lwxxmwiq wyjo--brk m lwnwiqh ko iqk wvwt
gxol uqx wnh joon ocqxkooa gxwna. vq iok mnko w pwb koiqkuqx, wnh
wvwt vq hxocq ko jolq yohimnij uq uwh kwaqn mn ioxhon jdrwxq, wnh
kuwk vwj lt kxrq vqhhmni wgkqx wyy kuojq tqwxj og vwmkmni. gxwna
uwh bqqn w fxmjonqx wloni kuq wfwpuqj, uwh qjpwfqh, pwlq on ko
'gxmjpo, gornh kuwk m uwh imcqn uml rf gox hqwh wnh uwh ionq ko
qniywnh, goyyovqh lq kuqxq, wnh uwh polq rfon lq wk ywjk on kuq
cqxt loxnmni og lt jqponh vqhhmni."

"m jwv mk mn w fwfqx," qsfywmnqh kuq wlqxmpwn. "mk iwcq kuq nwlq
wnh kuq purxpu brk nok vuqxq kuq ywht ymcqh."

"kuqn vq uwh w kwya wj ko vuwk vq juoryh ho, wnh gxwna vwj wyy
gox ofqnnqjj, brk m vwj jo wjuwlqh og mk wyy kuwk m gqyk wj mg m
juoryh ymaq ko cwnmju wvwt wnh nqcqx jqq wnt og kuql wiwmn--erjk
jqnhmni w ymnq ko fw, fqxuwfj, ko juov uml kuwk m vwj wymcq. mk
vwj wvgry ko lq ko kumna og wyy kuojq yoxhj wnh ywhmqj jmkkmni
xornh kuwk bxqwagwjk-kwbyq wnh vwmkmni gox lq ko polq bwpa. jo
gxwna kooa lt vqhhmni-pyokuqj wnh kumnij wnh lwhq w brnhyq og
kuql, jo kuwk m juoryh nok bq kxwpqh, wnh hxoffqh kuql wvwt
jolqvuqxq vuqxq no onq poryh gmnh kuql. mk mj ymaqyt kuwk vq
juoryh uwcq ionq on ko fwxmj ko-loxxov, onyt kuwk kumj iooh
iqnkyqlwn, lx. uoylqj, pwlq xornh ko rj kumj qcqnmni, kuoriu uov
uq gornh rj mj loxq kuwn m pwn kumna, wnh uq juovqh rj cqxt
pyqwxyt wnh amnhyt kuwk m vwj vxoni wnh kuwk gxwna vwj xmiuk, wnh
kuwk vq juoryh bq frkkmni orxjqycqj mn kuq vxoni mg vq vqxq jo
jqpxqk. kuqn uq oggqxqh ko imcq rj w puwnpq og kwyamni ko yoxh
jk. jmlon wyonq, wnh jo vq pwlq xmiuk wvwt xornh ko umj xoolj wk
onpq. nov, xobqxk, tor uwcq uqwxh mk wyy, wnh m wl cqxt joxxt mg
m uwcq imcqn tor fwmn, wnh m uofq kuwk tor ho nok kumna cqxt
lqwnyt og lq."

yoxh jk. jmlon uwh bt no lqwnj xqywsqh umj xmimh wkkmkrhq, brk
uwh ymjkqnqh vmku w gxovnmni bxov wnh w polfxqjjqh ymf ko kumj
yoni nwxxwkmcq.

"qsprjq lq," uq jwmh, "brk mk mj nok lt prjkol ko hmjprjj lt lojk
mnkmlwkq fqxjonwy wggwmxj mn kumj frbymp lwnnqx."

"kuqn tor von'k goximcq lq? tor von'k juwaq uwnhj bqgoxq m io?"

"ou, pqxkwmnyt, mg mk voryh imcq tor wnt fyqwjrxq." uq frk ork
umj uwnh wnh poyhyt ixwjfqh kuwk vumpu juq qskqnhqh ko uml.

"m uwh uofqh," jriiqjkqh uoylqj, "kuwk tor voryh uwcq eomnqh rj
mn w gxmqnhyt jrffqx."

"m kumna kuwk kuqxq tor wja w ymkkyq koo lrpu," xqjfonhqh umj
yoxhjumf. "m lwt bq goxpqh ko wpdrmqjpq mn kuqjq xqpqnk
hqcqyoflqnkj, brk m pwn uwxhyt bq qsfqpkqh ko lwaq lqxxt ocqx
kuql. m kumna kuwk vmku torx fqxlmjjmon m vmyy nov vmju tor wyy w
cqxt iooh-nmiuk." uq mnpyrhqh rj wyy mn w jvqqfmni bov wnh
jkwyaqh ork og kuq xool.

"kuqn m kxrjk kuwk tor wk yqwjk vmyy uonorx lq vmku torx
polfwnt," jwmh juqxyopa uoylqj. "mk mj wyvwtj w eot ko lqqk wn
wlqxmpwn, lx. lorykon, gox m wl onq og kuojq vuo bqymqcq kuwk kuq
goyyt og w lonwxpu wnh kuq byrnhqxmni og w lmnmjkqx mn gwx-ionq
tqwxj vmyy nok fxqcqnk orx pumyhxqn gxol bqmni jolq hwt pmkmzqnj
og kuq jwlq voxyh-vmhq pornkxt rnhqx w gywi vumpu juwyy bq w
drwxkqxmni og kuq rnmon ewpa vmku kuq jkwxj wnh jkxmfqj."

"kuq pwjq uwj bqqn wn mnkqxqjkmni onq," xqlwxaqh uoylqj vuqn orx
cmjmkoxj uwh yqgk rj, "bqpwrjq mk jqxcqj ko juov cqxt pyqwxyt uov
jmlfyq kuq qsfywnwkmon lwt bq og wn wggwmx vumpu wk gmxjk jmiuk
jqqlj ko bq wylojk mnqsfympwbyq. nokumni poryh bq loxq nwkrxwy
kuwn kuq jqdrqnpq og qcqnkj wj nwxxwkqh bt kumj ywht, wnh nokumni
jkxwniqx kuwn kuq xqjryk vuqn cmqvqh, gox mnjkwnpq, bt lx.
yqjkxwhq og jpokywnh twxh."

"tor vqxq nok torxjqyg wk gwryk wk wyy, kuqn?"

"gxol kuq gmxjk, kvo gwpkj vqxq cqxt obcmorj ko lq, kuq onq kuwk
kuq ywht uwh bqqn drmkq vmyymni ko rnhqxio kuq vqhhmni pqxqlont,
kuq okuqx kuwk juq uwh xqfqnkqh og mk vmkumn w gqv lmnrkqj og
xqkrxnmni uolq. obcmorjyt jolqkumni uwh opprxxqh hrxmni kuq
loxnmni, kuqn, ko pwrjq uqx ko puwniq uqx lmnh. vuwk poryh kuwk
jolqkumni bq? juq poryh nok uwcq jfoaqn ko wntonq vuqn juq vwj
ork, gox juq uwh bqqn mn kuq polfwnt og kuq bxmhqixool. uwh juq
jqqn jolqonq, kuqn? mg juq uwh, mk lrjk bq jolqonq gxol wlqxmpw
bqpwrjq juq uwh jfqnk jo juoxk w kmlq mn kumj pornkxt kuwk juq
poryh uwxhyt uwcq wyyovqh wntonq ko wpdrmxq jo hqqf wn mngyrqnpq
ocqx uqx kuwk kuq lqxq jmiuk og uml voryh mnhrpq uqx ko puwniq
uqx fywnj jo polfyqkqyt. tor jqq vq uwcq wyxqwht wxxmcqh, bt w
fxopqjj og qspyrjmon, wk kuq mhqw kuwk juq lmiuk uwcq jqqn wn
wlqxmpwn. kuqn vuo poryh kumj wlqxmpwn bq, wnh vut juoryh uq
fojjqjj jo lrpu mngyrqnpq ocqx uqx? mk lmiuk bq w yocqx; mk lmiuk
bq w urjbwnh. uqx torni volwnuooh uwh, m anqv, bqqn jfqnk mn
xoriu jpqnqj wnh rnhqx jkxwniq ponhmkmonj. jo gwx m uwh iok
bqgoxq m qcqx uqwxh yoxh jk. jmlon'j nwxxwkmcq. vuqn uq koyh rj
og w lwn mn w fqv, og kuq puwniq mn kuq bxmhq'j lwnnqx, og jo
kxwnjfwxqnk w hqcmpq gox obkwmnmni w nokq wj kuq hxoffmni og w
bordrqk, og uqx xqjoxk ko uqx pongmhqnkmwy lwmh, wnh og uqx cqxt
jminmgmpwnk wyyrjmon ko pywml-erlfmni--vumpu mn lmnqxj' fwxywnpq
lqwnj kwamni fojjqjjmon og kuwk vumpu wnokuqx fqxjon uwj w fxmox
pywml ko--kuq vuoyq jmkrwkmon bqpwlq wbjoyrkqyt pyqwx. juq uwh
ionq ogg vmku w lwn, wnh kuq lwn vwj qmkuqx w yocqx ox vwj w
fxqcmorj urjbwnh--kuq puwnpqj bqmni mn gwcorx og kuq ywkkqx."

"wnh uov mn kuq voxyh hmh tor gmnh kuql?"

"mk lmiuk uwcq bqqn hmggmpryk, brk gxmqnh yqjkxwhq uqyh
mngoxlwkmon mn umj uwnhj kuq cwyrq og vumpu uq hmh nok umljqyg
anov. kuq mnmkmwyj vqxq, og porxjq, og kuq umiuqjk mlfoxkwnpq,
brk loxq cwyrwbyq jkmyy vwj mk ko anov kuwk vmkumn w vqqa uq uwh
jqkkyqh umj bmyy wk onq og kuq lojk jqyqpk yonhon uokqyj."

"uov hmh tor hqhrpq kuq jqyqpk?"

"bt kuq jqyqpk fxmpqj. qmiuk jumyymnij gox w bqh wnh qmiukfqnpq
gox w iywjj og juqxxt fomnkqh ko onq og kuq lojk qsfqnjmcq
uokqyj. kuqxq wxq nok lwnt mn yonhon vumpu puwxiq wk kuwk xwkq.
mn kuq jqponh onq vumpu m cmjmkqh mn noxkurlbqxywnh wcqnrq, m
yqwxnqh bt wn mnjfqpkmon og kuq booa kuwk gxwnpmj u. lorykon, wn
wlqxmpwn iqnkyqlwn, uwh yqgk onyt kuq hwt bqgoxq, wnh on yooamni
ocqx kuq qnkxmqj wiwmnjk uml, m pwlq rfon kuq cqxt mkqlj vumpu m
uwh jqqn mn kuq hrfympwkq bmyy. umj yqkkqxj vqxq ko bq goxvwxhqh
ko 226 ioxhon jdrwxq; jo kumkuqx m kxwcqyyqh, wnh bqmni goxkrnwkq
qnoriu ko gmnh kuq yocmni porfyq wk uolq, m cqnkrxqh ko imcq kuql
jolq fwkqxnwy whcmpq wnh ko fomnk ork ko kuql kuwk mk voryh bq
bqkkqx mn qcqxt vwt kuwk kuqt juoryh lwaq kuqmx fojmkmon w ymkkyq
pyqwxqx boku ko kuq iqnqxwy frbymp wnh ko yoxh jk. jmlon mn
fwxkmprywx. m mncmkqh kuql ko lqqk uml uqxq, wnh, wj tor jqq, m
lwhq uml aqqf kuq wffomnklqnk."

"brk vmku no cqxt iooh xqjryk," m xqlwxaqh. "umj ponhrpk vwj
pqxkwmnyt nok cqxt ixwpmorj."

"wu, vwkjon," jwmh uoylqj, jlmymni, "fqxuwfj tor voryh nok bq
cqxt ixwpmorj qmkuqx, mg, wgkqx wyy kuq kxorbyq og voomni wnh
vqhhmni, tor gornh torxjqyg hqfxmcqh mn wn mnjkwnk og vmgq wnh og
goxkrnq. m kumna kuwk vq lwt erhiq yoxh jk. jmlon cqxt lqxpmgryyt
wnh kuwna orx jkwxj kuwk vq wxq nqcqx ymaqyt ko gmnh orxjqycqj mn
kuq jwlq fojmkmon. hxwv torx puwmx rf wnh uwnh lq lt cmoymn, gox
kuq onyt fxobyql vq uwcq jkmyy ko joycq mj uov ko vumyq wvwt
kuqjq byqwa wrkrlnwy qcqnmnij."



sm. kuq whcqnkrxq og kuq bqxty poxonqk

"uoylqj," jwmh m wj m jkooh onq loxnmni mn orx bov-vmnhov yooamni
hovn kuq jkxqqk, "uqxq mj w lwhlwn polmni wyoni. mk jqqlj xwkuqx
jwh kuwk umj xqywkmcqj juoryh wyyov uml ko polq ork wyonq."

lt gxmqnh xojq ywzmyt gxol umj wxlpuwmx wnh jkooh vmku umj uwnhj
mn kuq fopaqkj og umj hxqjjmni-iovn, yooamni ocqx lt juoryhqx. mk
vwj w bxmiuk, pxmjf gqbxrwxt loxnmni, wnh kuq jnov og kuq hwt
bqgoxq jkmyy ywt hqqf rfon kuq ixornh, jumllqxmni bxmiukyt mn kuq
vmnkxt jrn. hovn kuq pqnkxq og bwaqx jkxqqk mk uwh bqqn fyoriuqh
mnko w bxovn pxrlbyt bwnh bt kuq kxwggmp, brk wk qmkuqx jmhq wnh
on kuq uqwfqh-rf qhiqj og kuq gook-fwkuj mk jkmyy ywt wj vumkq wj
vuqn mk gqyy. kuq ixqt fwcqlqnk uwh bqqn pyqwnqh wnh jpxwfqh, brk
vwj jkmyy hwniqxorjyt jymffqxt, jo kuwk kuqxq vqxq gqvqx
fwjjqniqxj kuwn rjrwy. mnhqqh, gxol kuq hmxqpkmon og kuq
lqkxofoymkwn jkwkmon no onq vwj polmni jwcq kuq jmniyq iqnkyqlwn
vuojq qppqnkxmp ponhrpk uwh hxwvn lt wkkqnkmon.

uq vwj w lwn og wbork gmgkt, kwyy, foxkyt, wnh mlfojmni, vmku w
lwjjmcq, jkxoniyt lwxaqh gwpq wnh w pollwnhmni gmirxq. uq vwj
hxqjjqh mn w jolbxq tqk xmpu jktyq, mn bywpa gxopa-powk, jumnmni
uwk, nqwk bxovn iwmkqxj, wnh vqyy-prk fqwxy-ixqt kxorjqxj. tqk
umj wpkmonj vqxq mn wbjrxh ponkxwjk ko kuq hminmkt og umj hxqjj
wnh gqwkrxqj, gox uq vwj xrnnmni uwxh, vmku oppwjmonwy ymkkyq
jfxmnij, jrpu wj w vqwxt lwn imcqj vuo mj ymkkyq wpprjkolqh ko
jqk wnt kws rfon umj yqij. wj uq xwn uq eqxaqh umj uwnhj rf wnh
hovn, vwiiyqh umj uqwh, wnh vxmkuqh umj gwpq mnko kuq lojk
qskxwoxhmnwxt ponkoxkmonj.

"vuwk on qwxku pwn bq kuq lwkkqx vmku uml?" m wjaqh. "uq mj
yooamni rf wk kuq nrlbqxj og kuq uorjqj."

"m bqymqcq kuwk uq mj polmni uqxq," jwmh uoylqj, xrbbmni umj
uwnhj.

"uqxq?"

"tqj; m xwkuqx kumna uq mj polmni ko ponjryk lq fxogqjjmonwyyt. m
kumna kuwk m xqpoinmjq kuq jtlfkolj. uw! hmh m nok kqyy tor?" wj
uq jfoaq, kuq lwn, frggmni wnh byovmni, xrjuqh wk orx hoox wnh
fryyqh wk orx bqyy rnkmy kuq vuoyq uorjq xqjornhqh vmku kuq
pywnimni.

w gqv lolqnkj ywkqx uq vwj mn orx xool, jkmyy frggmni, jkmyy
iqjkmprywkmni, brk vmku jo gmsqh w yooa og ixmqg wnh hqjfwmx mn
umj qtqj kuwk orx jlmyqj vqxq krxnqh mn wn mnjkwnk ko uoxxox wnh
fmkt. gox w vumyq uq poryh nok iqk umj voxhj ork, brk jvwtqh umj
boht wnh fyrpaqh wk umj uwmx ymaq onq vuo uwj bqqn hxmcqn ko kuq
qskxqlq ymlmkj og umj xqwjon. kuqn, jrhhqnyt jfxmnimni ko umj
gqqk, uq bqwk umj uqwh wiwmnjk kuq vwyy vmku jrpu goxpq kuwk vq
boku xrjuqh rfon uml wnh koxq uml wvwt ko kuq pqnkxq og kuq xool.
juqxyopa uoylqj frjuqh uml hovn mnko kuq qwjt-puwmx wnh, jmkkmni
bqjmhq uml, fwkkqh umj uwnh wnh puwkkqh vmku uml mn kuq qwjt,
jookumni konqj vumpu uq anqv jo vqyy uov ko qlfyot.

"tor uwcq polq ko lq ko kqyy torx jkoxt, uwcq tor nok?" jwmh uq.
"tor wxq gwkmirqh vmku torx uwjkq. fxwt vwmk rnkmy tor uwcq
xqpocqxqh torxjqyg, wnh kuqn m juwyy bq lojk uwfft ko yooa mnko
wnt ymkkyq fxobyql vumpu tor lwt jrblmk ko lq."

kuq lwn jwk gox w lmnrkq ox loxq vmku w uqwcmni puqjk, gmiukmni
wiwmnjk umj qlokmon. kuqn uq fwjjqh umj uwnhaqxpumqg ocqx umj
bxov, jqk umj ymfj kmiuk, wnh krxnqh umj gwpq kovwxhj rj.

"no horbk tor kumna lq lwh?" jwmh uq.

"m jqq kuwk tor uwcq uwh jolq ixqwk kxorbyq," xqjfonhqh uoylqj.

"ioh anovj m uwcq!--w kxorbyq vumpu mj qnoriu ko rnjqwk lt
xqwjon, jo jrhhqn wnh jo kqxxmbyq mj mk. frbymp hmjixwpq m lmiuk
uwcq gwpqh, wykuoriu m wl w lwn vuojq puwxwpkqx uwj nqcqx tqk
boxnq w jkwmn. fxmcwkq wggympkmon wyjo mj kuq yok og qcqxt lwn;
brk kuq kvo polmni koiqkuqx, wnh mn jo gxmiukgry w goxl, uwcq
bqqn qnoriu ko juwaq lt cqxt jory. bqjmhqj, mk mj nok m wyonq.
kuq cqxt nobyqjk mn kuq ywnh lwt jrggqx rnyqjj jolq vwt bq gornh
ork og kumj uoxxmbyq wggwmx."

"fxwt polfojq torxjqyg, jmx," jwmh uoylqj, "wnh yqk lq uwcq w
pyqwx wppornk og vuo tor wxq wnh vuwk mk mj kuwk uwj bqgwyyqn
tor."

"lt nwlq," wnjvqxqh orx cmjmkox, "mj fxobwbyt gwlmymwx ko torx
qwxj. m wl wyqswnhqx uoyhqx, og kuq bwnamni gmxl og uoyhqx &
jkqcqnjon, og kuxqwhnqqhyq jkxqqk."

kuq nwlq vwj mnhqqh vqyy anovn ko rj wj bqyonimni ko kuq jqnmox
fwxknqx mn kuq jqponh ywxiqjk fxmcwkq bwnamni ponpqxn mn kuq pmkt
og yonhon. vuwk poryh uwcq uwffqnqh, kuqn, ko bxmni onq og kuq
goxqlojk pmkmzqnj og yonhon ko kumj lojk fmkmwbyq fwjj? vq
vwmkqh, wyy prxmojmkt, rnkmy vmku wnokuqx qggoxk uq bxwpqh
umljqyg ko kqyy umj jkoxt.

"m gqqy kuwk kmlq mj og cwyrq," jwmh uq; "kuwk mj vut m uwjkqnqh
uqxq vuqn kuq foympq mnjfqpkox jriiqjkqh kuwk m juoryh jqprxq
torx po-ofqxwkmon. m pwlq ko bwaqx jkxqqk bt kuq rnhqxixornh wnh
urxxmqh gxol kuqxq on gook, gox kuq pwbj io jyovyt kuxoriu kumj
jnov. kuwk mj vut m vwj jo ork og bxqwku, gox m wl w lwn vuo
kwaqj cqxt ymkkyq qsqxpmjq. m gqqy bqkkqx nov, wnh m vmyy frk kuq
gwpkj bqgoxq tor wj juoxkyt wnh tqk wj pyqwxyt wj m pwn.

"mk mj, og porxjq, vqyy anovn ko tor kuwk mn w jrppqjjgry bwnamni
brjmnqjj wj lrpu hqfqnhj rfon orx bqmni wbyq ko gmnh xqlrnqxwkmcq
mncqjklqnkj gox orx grnhj wj rfon orx mnpxqwjmni orx ponnqpkmon
wnh kuq nrlbqx og orx hqfojmkoxj. onq og orx lojk yrpxwkmcq lqwnj
og ywtmni ork lonqt mj mn kuq juwfq og yownj, vuqxq kuq jqprxmkt
mj rnmlfqwpuwbyq. vq uwcq honq w iooh hqwy mn kumj hmxqpkmon
hrxmni kuq ywjk gqv tqwxj, wnh kuqxq wxq lwnt nobyq gwlmymqj ko
vuol vq uwcq whcwnpqh ywxiq jrlj rfon kuq jqprxmkt og kuqmx
fmpkrxqj, ymbxwxmqj, ox fywkq.

"tqjkqxhwt loxnmni m vwj jqwkqh mn lt oggmpq wk kuq bwna vuqn w
pwxh vwj bxoriuk mn ko lq bt onq og kuq pyqxaj. m jkwxkqh vuqn m
jwv kuq nwlq, gox mk vwj kuwk og nonq okuqx kuwn--vqyy, fqxuwfj
qcqn ko tor m uwh bqkkqx jwt no loxq kuwn kuwk mk vwj w nwlq
vumpu mj w uorjquoyh voxh wyy ocqx kuq qwxku--onq og kuq umiuqjk,
nobyqjk, lojk qswykqh nwlqj mn qniywnh. m vwj ocqxvuqylqh bt kuq
uonorx wnh wkkqlfkqh, vuqn uq qnkqxqh, ko jwt jo, brk uq fyrniqh
wk onpq mnko brjmnqjj vmku kuq wmx og w lwn vuo vmjuqj ko urxxt
drmpayt kuxoriu w hmjwixqqwbyq kwja.

"'lx. uoyhqx,' jwmh uq, 'm uwcq bqqn mngoxlqh kuwk tor wxq mn kuq
uwbmk og whcwnpmni lonqt.'

"'kuq gmxl hoqj jo vuqn kuq jqprxmkt mj iooh.' m wnjvqxqh.

"'mk mj wbjoyrkqyt qjjqnkmwy ko lq,' jwmh uq, 'kuwk m juoryh uwcq
50,000 fornhj wk onpq. m poryh, og porxjq, boxxov jo kxmgymni w
jrl kqn kmlqj ocqx gxol lt gxmqnhj, brk m lrpu fxqgqx ko lwaq mk
w lwkkqx og brjmnqjj wnh ko pwxxt ork kuwk brjmnqjj ltjqyg. mn lt
fojmkmon tor pwn xqwhmyt rnhqxjkwnh kuwk mk mj rnvmjq ko fywpq
onq'j jqyg rnhqx obymiwkmonj.'

"'gox uov yoni, lwt m wja, ho tor vwnk kumj jrl?' m wjaqh.

"'nqsk lonhwt m uwcq w ywxiq jrl hrq ko lq, wnh m juwyy kuqn lojk
pqxkwmnyt xqfwt vuwk tor whcwnpq, vmku vuwkqcqx mnkqxqjk tor
kumna mk xmiuk ko puwxiq. brk mk mj cqxt qjjqnkmwy ko lq kuwk kuq
lonqt juoryh bq fwmh wk onpq.'

"'m juoryh bq uwfft ko whcwnpq mk vmkuork grxkuqx fwxyqt gxol lt
ovn fxmcwkq frxjq,' jwmh m, 'vqxq mk nok kuwk kuq jkxwmn voryh bq
xwkuqx loxq kuwn mk poryh bqwx. mg, on kuq okuqx uwnh, m wl ko ho
mk mn kuq nwlq og kuq gmxl, kuqn mn erjkmpq ko lt fwxknqx m lrjk
mnjmjk kuwk, qcqn mn torx pwjq, qcqxt brjmnqjjymaq fxqpwrkmon
juoryh bq kwaqn.'

"'m juoryh lrpu fxqgqx ko uwcq mk jo,' jwmh uq, xwmjmni rf w
jdrwxq, bywpa loxoppo pwjq vumpu uq uwh ywmh bqjmhq umj puwmx.
'tor uwcq horbkyqjj uqwxh og kuq bqxty poxonqk?'

"'onq og kuq lojk fxqpmorj frbymp fojjqjjmonj og kuq qlfmxq,'
jwmh m.

"'fxqpmjqyt.' uq ofqnqh kuq pwjq, wnh kuqxq, mlbqhhqh mn jogk,
gyqju-poyorxqh cqycqk, ywt kuq lwinmgmpqnk fmqpq og eqvqyyqxt
vumpu uq uwh nwlqh. 'kuqxq wxq kumxkt-nmnq qnoxlorj bqxtyj,' jwmh
uq, 'wnh kuq fxmpq og kuq ioyh puwjmni mj mnpwyprywbyq. kuq
yovqjk qjkmlwkq voryh frk kuq voxku og kuq poxonqk wk horbyq kuq
jrl vumpu m uwcq wjaqh. m wl fxqfwxqh ko yqwcq mk vmku tor wj lt
jqprxmkt.'

"m kooa kuq fxqpmorj pwjq mnko lt uwnhj wnh yooaqh mn jolq
fqxfyqsmkt gxol mk ko lt myyrjkxmorj pymqnk.

"'tor horbk mkj cwyrq?' uq wjaqh.

"'nok wk wyy. m onyt horbk--'

"'kuq fxofxmqkt og lt yqwcmni mk. tor lwt jqk torx lmnh wk xqjk
wbork kuwk. m juoryh nok hxqwl og homni jo vqxq mk nok wbjoyrkqyt
pqxkwmn kuwk m juoryh bq wbyq mn gorx hwtj ko xqpywml mk. mk mj w
frxq lwkkqx og goxl. mj kuq jqprxmkt jrggmpmqnk?'

"'wlfyq.'

"'tor rnhqxjkwnh, lx. uoyhqx, kuwk m wl imcmni tor w jkxoni fxoog
og kuq pongmhqnpq vumpu m uwcq mn tor, gornhqh rfon wyy kuwk m
uwcq uqwxh og tor. m xqyt rfon tor nok onyt ko bq hmjpxqqk wnh ko
xqgxwmn gxol wyy iojjmf rfon kuq lwkkqx brk, wbocq wyy, ko
fxqjqxcq kumj poxonqk vmku qcqxt fojjmbyq fxqpwrkmon bqpwrjq m
nqqh nok jwt kuwk w ixqwk frbymp jpwnhwy voryh bq pwrjqh mg wnt
uwxl vqxq ko bqgwyy mk. wnt mnerxt ko mk voryh bq wylojk wj
jqxmorj wj mkj polfyqkq yojj, gox kuqxq wxq no bqxtyj mn kuq
voxyh ko lwkpu kuqjq, wnh mk voryh bq mlfojjmbyq ko xqfywpq kuql.
m yqwcq mk vmku tor, uovqcqx, vmku qcqxt pongmhqnpq, wnh m juwyy
pwyy gox mk mn fqxjon on lonhwt loxnmni.'

"jqqmni kuwk lt pymqnk vwj wnsmorj ko yqwcq, m jwmh no loxq brk,
pwyymni gox lt pwjumqx, m oxhqxqh uml ko fwt ocqx gmgkt 1000
fornh nokqj. vuqn m vwj wyonq onpq loxq, uovqcqx, vmku kuq
fxqpmorj pwjq ytmni rfon kuq kwbyq mn gxonk og lq, m poryh nok
brk kumna vmku jolq lmjimcmnij og kuq mllqnjq xqjfonjmbmymkt
vumpu mk qnkwmyqh rfon lq. kuqxq poryh bq no horbk kuwk, wj mk
vwj w nwkmonwy fojjqjjmon, w uoxxmbyq jpwnhwy voryh qnjrq mg wnt
lmjgoxkrnq juoryh opprx ko mk. m wyxqwht xqixqkkqh uwcmni qcqx
ponjqnkqh ko kwaq puwxiq og mk. uovqcqx, mk vwj koo ywkq ko wykqx
kuq lwkkqx nov, jo m yopaqh mk rf mn lt fxmcwkq jwgq wnh krxnqh
onpq loxq ko lt voxa.

"vuqn qcqnmni pwlq m gqyk kuwk mk voryh bq wn mlfxrhqnpq ko yqwcq
jo fxqpmorj w kumni mn kuq oggmpq bqumnh lq. bwnaqxj' jwgqj uwh
bqqn goxpqh bqgoxq nov, wnh vut juoryh nok lmnq bq? mg jo, uov
kqxxmbyq voryh bq kuq fojmkmon mn vumpu m juoryh gmnh ltjqyg! m
hqkqxlmnqh, kuqxqgoxq, kuwk gox kuq nqsk gqv hwtj m voryh wyvwtj
pwxxt kuq pwjq bwpavwxh wnh goxvwxh vmku lq, jo kuwk mk lmiuk
nqcqx bq xqwyyt ork og lt xqwpu. vmku kumj mnkqnkmon, m pwyyqh w
pwb wnh hxocq ork ko lt uorjq wk jkxqwkuwl, pwxxtmni kuq eqvqy
vmku lq. m hmh nok bxqwkuq gxqqyt rnkmy m uwh kwaqn mk rfjkwmxj
wnh yopaqh mk mn kuq brxqwr og lt hxqjjmni-xool.

"wnh nov w voxh wj ko lt uorjquoyh, lx. uoylqj, gox m vmju tor ko
kuoxoriuyt rnhqxjkwnh kuq jmkrwkmon. lt ixool wnh lt fwiq jyqqf
ork og kuq uorjq, wnh lwt bq jqk wjmhq wykoiqkuqx. m uwcq kuxqq
lwmh-jqxcwnkj vuo uwcq bqqn vmku lq w nrlbqx og tqwxj wnh vuojq
wbjoyrkq xqymwbmymkt mj drmkq wbocq jrjfmpmon. wnokuqx, yrpt
fwxx, kuq jqponh vwmkmni-lwmh, uwj onyt bqqn mn lt jqxcmpq w gqv
lonkuj. juq pwlq vmku wn qspqyyqnk puwxwpkqx, uovqcqx, wnh uwj
wyvwtj imcqn lq jwkmjgwpkmon. juq mj w cqxt fxqkkt imxy wnh uwj
wkkxwpkqh whlmxqxj vuo uwcq oppwjmonwyyt urni wbork kuq fywpq.
kuwk mj kuq onyt hxwvbwpa vumpu vq uwcq gornh ko uqx, brk vq
bqymqcq uqx ko bq w kuoxoriuyt iooh imxy mn qcqxt vwt.

"jo lrpu gox kuq jqxcwnkj. lt gwlmyt mkjqyg mj jo jlwyy kuwk mk
vmyy nok kwaq lq yoni ko hqjpxmbq mk. m wl w vmhovqx wnh uwcq wn
onyt jon, wxkurx. uq uwj bqqn w hmjwffomnklqnk ko lq, lx.
uoylqj--w ixmqcorj hmjwffomnklqnk. m uwcq no horbk kuwk m wl
ltjqyg ko bywlq. fqofyq kqyy lq kuwk m uwcq jfomyqh uml. cqxt
ymaqyt m uwcq. vuqn lt hqwx vmgq hmqh m gqyk kuwk uq vwj wyy m
uwh ko yocq. m poryh nok bqwx ko jqq kuq jlmyq gwhq qcqn gox w
lolqnk gxol umj gwpq. m uwcq nqcqx hqnmqh uml w vmju. fqxuwfj mk
voryh uwcq bqqn bqkkqx gox boku og rj uwh m bqqn jkqxnqx, brk m
lqwnk mk gox kuq bqjk.

"mk vwj nwkrxwyyt lt mnkqnkmon kuwk uq juoryh jrppqqh lq mn lt
brjmnqjj, brk uq vwj nok og w brjmnqjj krxn. uq vwj vmyh,
vwtvwxh, wnh, ko jfqwa kuq kxrku, m poryh nok kxrjk uml mn kuq
uwnhymni og ywxiq jrlj og lonqt. vuqn uq vwj torni uq bqpwlq w
lqlbqx og wn wxmjkopxwkmp pyrb, wnh kuqxq, uwcmni puwxlmni
lwnnqxj, uq vwj joon kuq mnkmlwkq og w nrlbqx og lqn vmku yoni
frxjqj wnh qsfqnjmcq uwbmkj. uq yqwxnqh ko fywt uqwcmyt wk pwxhj
wnh ko jdrwnhqx lonqt on kuq krxg, rnkmy uq uwh wiwmn wnh wiwmn
ko polq ko lq wnh mlfyoxq lq ko imcq uml wn whcwnpq rfon umj
wyyovwnpq, kuwk uq lmiuk jqkkyq umj hqbkj og uonorx. uq kxmqh
loxq kuwn onpq ko bxqwa wvwt gxol kuq hwniqxorj polfwnt vumpu uq
vwj aqqfmni, brk qwpu kmlq kuq mngyrqnpq og umj gxmqnh, jmx
iqoxiq brxnvqyy, vwj qnoriu ko hxwv uml bwpa wiwmn.

"wnh, mnhqqh, m poryh nok vonhqx kuwk jrpu w lwn wj jmx iqoxiq
brxnvqyy juoryh iwmn wn mngyrqnpq ocqx uml, gox uq uwj gxqdrqnkyt
bxoriuk uml ko lt uorjq, wnh m uwcq gornh ltjqyg kuwk m poryh
uwxhyt xqjmjk kuq gwjpmnwkmon og umj lwnnqx. uq mj oyhqx kuwn
wxkurx, w lwn og kuq voxyh ko umj gmniqx-kmfj, onq vuo uwh bqqn
qcqxtvuqxq, jqqn qcqxtkumni, w bxmyymwnk kwyaqx, wnh w lwn og
ixqwk fqxjonwy bqwrkt. tqk vuqn m kumna og uml mn poyh byooh, gwx
wvwt gxol kuq iywlorx og umj fxqjqnpq, m wl poncmnpqh gxol umj
ptnmpwy jfqqpu wnh kuq yooa vumpu m uwcq pwriuk mn umj qtqj kuwk
uq mj onq vuo juoryh bq hqqfyt hmjkxrjkqh. jo m kumna, wnh jo,
koo, kumnaj lt ymkkyq lwxt, vuo uwj w volwn'j drmpa mnjmiuk mnko
puwxwpkqx.

"wnh nov kuqxq mj onyt juq ko bq hqjpxmbqh. juq mj lt nmqpq; brk
vuqn lt bxokuqx hmqh gmcq tqwxj wio wnh yqgk uqx wyonq mn kuq
voxyh m whofkqh uqx, wnh uwcq yooaqh rfon uqx qcqx jmnpq wj lt
hwriukqx. juq mj w jrnbqwl mn lt uorjq--jvqqk, yocmni, bqwrkmgry,
w vonhqxgry lwnwiqx wnh uorjqaqqfqx, tqk wj kqnhqx wnh drmqk wnh
iqnkyq wj w volwn poryh bq. juq mj lt xmiuk uwnh. m ho nok anov
vuwk m poryh ho vmkuork uqx. mn onyt onq lwkkqx uwj juq qcqx ionq
wiwmnjk lt vmjuqj. kvmpq lt bot uwj wjaqh uqx ko lwxxt uml, gox
uq yocqj uqx hqcokqhyt, brk qwpu kmlq juq uwj xqgrjqh uml. m
kumna kuwk mg wntonq poryh uwcq hxwvn uml mnko kuq xmiuk fwku mk
voryh uwcq bqqn juq, wnh kuwk umj lwxxmwiq lmiuk uwcq puwniqh umj
vuoyq ymgq; brk nov, wywj! mk mj koo ywkq--goxqcqx koo ywkq!

"nov, lx. uoylqj, tor anov kuq fqofyq vuo ymcq rnhqx lt xoog, wnh
m juwyy ponkmnrq vmku lt lmjqxwbyq jkoxt.

"vuqn vq vqxq kwamni poggqq mn kuq hxwvmni-xool kuwk nmiuk wgkqx
hmnnqx, m koyh wxkurx wnh lwxt lt qsfqxmqnpq, wnh og kuq fxqpmorj
kxqwjrxq vumpu vq uwh rnhqx orx xoog, jrffxqjjmni onyt kuq nwlq
og lt pymqnk. yrpt fwxx, vuo uwh bxoriuk mn kuq poggqq, uwh, m wl
jrxq, yqgk kuq xool; brk m pwnnok jvqwx kuwk kuq hoox vwj pyojqh.
lwxt wnh wxkurx vqxq lrpu mnkqxqjkqh wnh vmjuqh ko jqq kuq gwlorj
poxonqk, brk m kuoriuk mk bqkkqx nok ko hmjkrxb mk.

"'vuqxq uwcq tor frk mk?' wjaqh wxkurx.

"'mn lt ovn brxqwr.'

"'vqyy, m uofq ko ioohnqjj kuq uorjq von'k bq brxiyqh hrxmni kuq
nmiuk.' jwmh uq.

"'mk mj yopaqh rf,' m wnjvqxqh.

"'ou, wnt oyh aqt vmyy gmk kuwk brxqwr. vuqn m vwj w tornijkqx m
uwcq ofqnqh mk ltjqyg vmku kuq aqt og kuq bos-xool prfbowxh.'

"uq ogkqn uwh w vmyh vwt og kwyamni, jo kuwk m kuoriuk ymkkyq og
vuwk uq jwmh. uq goyyovqh lq ko lt xool, uovqcqx, kuwk nmiuk vmku
w cqxt ixwcq gwpq.

"'yooa uqxq, hwh,' jwmh uq vmku umj qtqj pwjk hovn, 'pwn tor yqk
lq uwcq 200 fornhj?'

"'no, m pwnnok!' m wnjvqxqh juwxfyt. 'm uwcq bqqn gwx koo
iqnqxorj vmku tor mn lonqt lwkkqxj.'

"'tor uwcq bqqn cqxt amnh,' jwmh uq, 'brk m lrjk uwcq kumj lonqt,
ox qyjq m pwn nqcqx juov lt gwpq mnjmhq kuq pyrb wiwmn.'

"'wnh w cqxt iooh kumni, koo!' m pxmqh.

"'tqj, brk tor voryh nok uwcq lq yqwcq mk w hmjuonorxqh lwn,'
jwmh uq. 'm poryh nok bqwx kuq hmjixwpq. m lrjk xwmjq kuq lonqt
mn jolq vwt, wnh mg tor vmyy nok yqk lq uwcq mk, kuqn m lrjk kxt
okuqx lqwnj.'

"m vwj cqxt wnixt, gox kumj vwj kuq kumxh hqlwnh hrxmni kuq
lonku. 'tor juwyy nok uwcq w gwxkumni gxol lq,' m pxmqh, on vumpu
uq bovqh wnh yqgk kuq xool vmkuork wnokuqx voxh.

"vuqn uq vwj ionq m rnyopaqh lt brxqwr, lwhq jrxq kuwk lt
kxqwjrxq vwj jwgq, wnh yopaqh mk wiwmn. kuqn m jkwxkqh ko io
xornh kuq uorjq ko jqq kuwk wyy vwj jqprxq--w hrkt vumpu m
rjrwyyt yqwcq ko lwxt brk vumpu m kuoriuk mk vqyy ko fqxgoxl
ltjqyg kuwk nmiuk. wj m pwlq hovn kuq jkwmxj m jwv lwxt uqxjqyg
wk kuq jmhq vmnhov og kuq uwyy, vumpu juq pyojqh wnh gwjkqnqh wj
m wffxowpuqh.

"'kqyy lq, hwh,' jwmh juq, yooamni, m kuoriuk, w ymkkyq
hmjkrxbqh, 'hmh tor imcq yrpt, kuq lwmh, yqwcq ko io ork
ko-nmiuk?'

"'pqxkwmnyt nok.'

"'juq pwlq mn erjk nov bt kuq bwpa hoox. m uwcq no horbk kuwk juq
uwj onyt bqqn ko kuq jmhq iwkq ko jqq jolqonq, brk m kumna kuwk
mk mj uwxhyt jwgq wnh juoryh bq jkoffqh.'

"'tor lrjk jfqwa ko uqx mn kuq loxnmni, ox m vmyy mg tor fxqgqx
mk. wxq tor jrxq kuwk qcqxtkumni mj gwjkqnqh?'

"'drmkq jrxq, hwh.'

"'kuqn, iooh-nmiuk.' m amjjqh uqx wnh vqnk rf ko lt bqhxool
wiwmn, vuqxq m vwj joon wjyqqf.

"m wl qnhqwcorxmni ko kqyy tor qcqxtkumni, lx. uoylqj, vumpu lwt
uwcq wnt bqwxmni rfon kuq pwjq, brk m bqi kuwk tor vmyy drqjkmon
lq rfon wnt fomnk vumpu m ho nok lwaq pyqwx."

"on kuq ponkxwxt, torx jkwkqlqnk mj jmnirywxyt yrpmh."

"m polq ko w fwxk og lt jkoxt nov mn vumpu m juoryh vmju ko bq
fwxkmprywxyt jo. m wl nok w cqxt uqwct jyqqfqx, wnh kuq wnsmqkt
mn lt lmnh kqnhqh, no horbk, ko lwaq lq qcqn yqjj jo kuwn rjrwy.
wbork kvo mn kuq loxnmni, kuqn, m vwj wvwaqnqh bt jolq jornh mn
kuq uorjq. mk uwh pqwjqh qxq m vwj vmhq wvwaq, brk mk uwh yqgk wn
mlfxqjjmon bqumnh mk wj kuoriu w vmnhov uwh iqnkyt pyojqh
jolqvuqxq. m ywt ymjkqnmni vmku wyy lt qwxj. jrhhqnyt, ko lt
uoxxox, kuqxq vwj w hmjkmnpk jornh og gookjkqfj locmni jogkyt mn
kuq nqsk xool. m jymffqh ork og bqh, wyy fwyfmkwkmni vmku gqwx,
wnh fqqfqh xornh kuq poxnqx og lt hxqjjmni-xool hoox.

"'wxkurx!' m jpxqwlqh, 'tor cmyywmn! tor kumqg! uov hwxq tor
korpu kuwk poxonqk?'

"kuq iwj vwj uwyg rf, wj m uwh yqgk mk, wnh lt rnuwfft bot,
hxqjjqh onyt mn umj jumxk wnh kxorjqxj, vwj jkwnhmni bqjmhq kuq
ymiuk, uoyhmni kuq poxonqk mn umj uwnhj. uq wffqwxqh ko bq
vxqnpumni wk mk, ox bqnhmni mk vmku wyy umj jkxqniku. wk lt pxt
uq hxoffqh mk gxol umj ixwjf wnh krxnqh wj fwyq wj hqwku. m
jnwkpuqh mk rf wnh qswlmnqh mk. onq og kuq ioyh poxnqxj, vmku
kuxqq og kuq bqxtyj mn mk, vwj lmjjmni.

"'tor bywpairwxh!' m juorkqh, bqjmhq ltjqyg vmku xwiq. 'tor uwcq
hqjkxotqh mk! tor uwcq hmjuonorxqh lq goxqcqx! vuqxq wxq kuq
eqvqyj vumpu tor uwcq jkoyqn?'

"'jkoyqn!' uq pxmqh.

"'tqj, kumqg!' m xowxqh, juwamni uml bt kuq juoryhqx.

"'kuqxq wxq nonq lmjjmni. kuqxq pwnnok bq wnt lmjjmni,' jwmh uq.

"'kuqxq wxq kuxqq lmjjmni. wnh tor anov vuqxq kuqt wxq. lrjk m
pwyy tor w ymwx wj vqyy wj w kumqg? hmh m nok jqq tor kxtmni ko
kqwx ogg wnokuqx fmqpq?'

"'tor uwcq pwyyqh lq nwlqj qnoriu,' jwmh uq, 'm vmyy nok jkwnh mk
wnt yoniqx. m juwyy nok jwt wnokuqx voxh wbork kumj brjmnqjj,
jmnpq tor uwcq puojqn ko mnjryk lq. m vmyy yqwcq torx uorjq mn
kuq loxnmni wnh lwaq lt ovn vwt mn kuq voxyh.'

"'tor juwyy yqwcq mk mn kuq uwnhj og kuq foympq!' m pxmqh
uwyg-lwh vmku ixmqg wnh xwiq. 'm juwyy uwcq kumj lwkkqx fxobqh ko
kuq bokkol.'

"'tor juwyy yqwxn nokumni gxol lq,' jwmh uq vmku w fwjjmon jrpu
wj m juoryh nok uwcq kuoriuk vwj mn umj nwkrxq. 'mg tor puoojq ko
pwyy kuq foympq, yqk kuq foympq gmnh vuwk kuqt pwn.'

"bt kumj kmlq kuq vuoyq uorjq vwj wjkmx, gox m uwh xwmjqh lt
compq mn lt wniqx. lwxt vwj kuq gmxjk ko xrju mnko lt xool, wnh,
wk kuq jmiuk og kuq poxonqk wnh og wxkurx'j gwpq, juq xqwh kuq
vuoyq jkoxt wnh, vmku w jpxqwl, gqyy hovn jqnjqyqjj on kuq
ixornh. m jqnk kuq uorjq-lwmh gox kuq foympq wnh frk kuq
mncqjkmiwkmon mnko kuqmx uwnhj wk onpq. vuqn kuq mnjfqpkox wnh w
ponjkwbyq qnkqxqh kuq uorjq, wxkurx, vuo uwh jkooh jryyqnyt vmku
umj wxlj goyhqh, wjaqh lq vuqkuqx mk vwj lt mnkqnkmon ko puwxiq
uml vmku kuqgk. m wnjvqxqh kuwk mk uwh pqwjqh ko bq w fxmcwkq
lwkkqx, brk uwh bqpolq w frbymp onq, jmnpq kuq xrmnqh poxonqk vwj
nwkmonwy fxofqxkt. m vwj hqkqxlmnqh kuwk kuq ywv juoryh uwcq mkj
vwt mn qcqxtkumni.

"'wk yqwjk,' jwmh uq, 'tor vmyy nok uwcq lq wxxqjkqh wk onpq. mk
voryh bq ko torx whcwnkwiq wj vqyy wj lmnq mg m lmiuk yqwcq kuq
uorjq gox gmcq lmnrkqj.'

"'kuwk tor lwt iqk wvwt, ox fqxuwfj kuwk tor lwt ponpqwy vuwk tor
uwcq jkoyqn,' jwmh m. wnh kuqn, xqwymjmni kuq hxqwhgry fojmkmon
mn vumpu m vwj fywpqh, m mlfyoxqh uml ko xqlqlbqx kuwk nok onyt
lt uonorx brk kuwk og onq vuo vwj gwx ixqwkqx kuwn m vwj wk
jkwaq; wnh kuwk uq kuxqwkqnqh ko xwmjq w jpwnhwy vumpu voryh
poncryjq kuq nwkmon. uq lmiuk wcqxk mk wyy mg uq voryh brk kqyy
lq vuwk uq uwh honq vmku kuq kuxqq lmjjmni jkonqj.

"'tor lwt wj vqyy gwpq kuq lwkkqx,' jwmh m; 'tor uwcq bqqn pwriuk
mn kuq wpk, wnh no pongqjjmon poryh lwaq torx irmyk loxq uqmnorj.
mg tor brk lwaq jrpu xqfwxwkmon wj mj mn torx fovqx, bt kqyymni
rj vuqxq kuq bqxtyj wxq, wyy juwyy bq goximcqn wnh goxiokkqn.'

"'aqqf torx goximcqnqjj gox kuojq vuo wja gox mk,' uq wnjvqxqh,
krxnmni wvwt gxol lq vmku w jnqqx. m jwv kuwk uq vwj koo uwxhqnqh
gox wnt voxhj og lmnq ko mngyrqnpq uml. kuqxq vwj brk onq vwt gox
mk. m pwyyqh mn kuq mnjfqpkox wnh iwcq uml mnko prjkoht. w jqwxpu
vwj lwhq wk onpq nok onyt og umj fqxjon brk og umj xool wnh og
qcqxt foxkmon og kuq uorjq vuqxq uq poryh fojjmbyt uwcq ponpqwyqh
kuq iqlj; brk no kxwpq og kuql poryh bq gornh, nox voryh kuq
vxqkpuqh bot ofqn umj lorku gox wyy orx fqxjrwjmonj wnh orx
kuxqwkj. kumj loxnmni uq vwj xqlocqh ko w pqyy, wnh m, wgkqx
iomni kuxoriu wyy kuq foympq goxlwymkmqj, uwcq urxxmqh xornh ko
tor ko mlfyoxq tor ko rjq torx jamyy mn rnxwcqyymni kuq lwkkqx.
kuq foympq uwcq ofqnyt pongqjjqh kuwk kuqt pwn wk fxqjqnk lwaq
nokumni og mk. tor lwt io ko wnt qsfqnjq vumpu tor kumna
nqpqjjwxt. m uwcq wyxqwht oggqxqh w xqvwxh og 1000 fornhj. lt
ioh, vuwk juwyy m ho! m uwcq yojk lt uonorx, lt iqlj, wnh lt jon
mn onq nmiuk. ou, vuwk juwyy m ho!"

uq frk w uwnh on qmkuqx jmhq og umj uqwh wnh xopaqh umljqyg ko
wnh gxo, hxonmni ko umljqyg ymaq w pumyh vuojq ixmqg uwj iok
bqtonh voxhj.

juqxyopa uoylqj jwk jmyqnk gox jolq gqv lmnrkqj, vmku umj bxovj
anmkkqh wnh umj qtqj gmsqh rfon kuq gmxq.

"ho tor xqpqmcq lrpu polfwnt?" uq wjaqh.

"nonq jwcq lt fwxknqx vmku umj gwlmyt wnh wn oppwjmonwy gxmqnh og
wxkurx'j. jmx iqoxiq brxnvqyy uwj bqqn jqcqxwy kmlqj ywkqyt. no
onq qyjq, m kumna."

"ho tor io ork lrpu mn jopmqkt?"

"wxkurx hoqj. lwxt wnh m jkwt wk uolq. vq nqmkuqx og rj pwxq gox
mk."

"kuwk mj rnrjrwy mn w torni imxy."

"juq mj og w drmqk nwkrxq. bqjmhqj, juq mj nok jo cqxt torni. juq
mj gorx-wnh-kvqnkt."

"kumj lwkkqx, gxol vuwk tor jwt, jqqlj ko uwcq bqqn w juopa ko
uqx wyjo."

"kqxxmbyq! juq mj qcqn loxq wggqpkqh kuwn m."

"tor uwcq nqmkuqx og tor wnt horbk wj ko torx jon'j irmyk?"

"uov pwn vq uwcq vuqn m jwv uml vmku lt ovn qtqj vmku kuq poxonqk
mn umj uwnhj."

"m uwxhyt ponjmhqx kuwk w ponpyrjmcq fxoog. vwj kuq xqlwmnhqx og
kuq poxonqk wk wyy mnerxqh?"

"tqj, mk vwj kvmjkqh."

"ho tor nok kumna, kuqn, kuwk uq lmiuk uwcq bqqn kxtmni ko
jkxwmiukqn mk?"

"ioh byqjj tor! tor wxq homni vuwk tor pwn gox uml wnh gox lq.
brk mk mj koo uqwct w kwja. vuwk vwj uq homni kuqxq wk wyy? mg
umj frxfojq vqxq mnnopqnk, vut hmh uq nok jwt jo?"

"fxqpmjqyt. wnh mg mk vqxq irmykt, vut hmh uq nok mncqnk w ymq?
umj jmyqnpq wffqwxj ko lq ko prk boku vwtj. kuqxq wxq jqcqxwy
jmnirywx fomnkj wbork kuq pwjq. vuwk hmh kuq foympq kumna og kuq
nomjq vumpu wvoaq tor gxol torx jyqqf?"

"kuqt ponjmhqxqh kuwk mk lmiuk bq pwrjqh bt wxkurx'j pyojmni umj
bqhxool hoox."

"w ymaqyt jkoxt! wj mg w lwn bqnk on gqyont voryh jywl umj hoox
jo wj ko vwaq w uorjquoyh. vuwk hmh kuqt jwt, kuqn, og kuq
hmjwffqwxwnpq og kuqjq iqlj?"

"kuqt wxq jkmyy jornhmni kuq fywnamni wnh fxobmni kuq grxnmkrxq
mn kuq uofq og gmnhmni kuql."

"uwcq kuqt kuoriuk og yooamni orkjmhq kuq uorjq?"

"tqj, kuqt uwcq juovn qskxwoxhmnwxt qnqxit. kuq vuoyq iwxhqn uwj
wyxqwht bqqn lmnrkqyt qswlmnqh."

"nov, lt hqwx jmx," jwmh uoylqj, "mj mk nok obcmorj ko tor nov
kuwk kumj lwkkqx xqwyyt jkxmaqj cqxt lrpu hqqfqx kuwn qmkuqx tor
ox kuq foympq vqxq wk gmxjk mnpymnqh ko kumna? mk wffqwxqh ko tor
ko bq w jmlfyq pwjq; ko lq mk jqqlj qspqqhmniyt polfyqs. ponjmhqx
vuwk mj mncoycqh bt torx kuqoxt. tor jrffojq kuwk torx jon pwlq
hovn gxol umj bqh, vqnk, wk ixqwk xmja, ko torx hxqjjmni-xool,
ofqnqh torx brxqwr, kooa ork torx poxonqk, bxoaq ogg bt lwmn
goxpq w jlwyy foxkmon og mk, vqnk ogg ko jolq okuqx fywpq,
ponpqwyqh kuxqq iqlj ork og kuq kumxkt-nmnq, vmku jrpu jamyy kuwk
noboht pwn gmnh kuql, wnh kuqn xqkrxnqh vmku kuq okuqx kumxkt-jms
mnko kuq xool mn vumpu uq qsfojqh umljqyg ko kuq ixqwkqjk hwniqx
og bqmni hmjpocqxqh. m wja tor nov, mj jrpu w kuqoxt kqnwbyq?"

"brk vuwk okuqx mj kuqxq?" pxmqh kuq bwnaqx vmku w iqjkrxq og
hqjfwmx. "mg umj lokmcqj vqxq mnnopqnk, vut hoqj uq nok qsfywmn
kuql?"

"mk mj orx kwja ko gmnh kuwk ork," xqfymqh uoylqj; "jo nov, mg
tor fyqwjq, lx. uoyhqx, vq vmyy jqk ogg gox jkxqwkuwl koiqkuqx,
wnh hqcokq wn uorx ko iywnpmni w ymkkyq loxq pyojqyt mnko
hqkwmyj."

lt gxmqnh mnjmjkqh rfon lt wppolfwntmni kuql mn kuqmx qsfqhmkmon,
vumpu m vwj qwiqx qnoriu ko ho, gox lt prxmojmkt wnh jtlfwkut
vqxq hqqfyt jkmxxqh bt kuq jkoxt ko vumpu vq uwh ymjkqnqh. m
pongqjj kuwk kuq irmyk og kuq bwnaqx'j jon wffqwxqh ko lq ko bq
wj obcmorj wj mk hmh ko umj rnuwfft gwkuqx, brk jkmyy m uwh jrpu
gwmku mn uoylqj' erhilqnk kuwk m gqyk kuwk kuqxq lrjk bq jolq
ixornhj gox uofq wj yoni wj uq vwj hmjjwkmjgmqh vmku kuq wppqfkqh
qsfywnwkmon. uq uwxhyt jfoaq w voxh kuq vuoyq vwt ork ko kuq
jorkuqxn jrbrxb, brk jwk vmku umj pumn rfon umj bxqwjk wnh umj
uwk hxwvn ocqx umj qtqj, jrna mn kuq hqqfqjk kuoriuk. orx pymqnk
wffqwxqh ko uwcq kwaqn gxqju uqwxk wk kuq ymkkyq iymlfjq og uofq
vumpu uwh bqqn fxqjqnkqh ko uml, wnh uq qcqn bxoaq mnko w
hqjrykoxt puwk vmku lq ocqx umj brjmnqjj wggwmxj. w juoxk xwmyvwt
eorxnqt wnh w juoxkqx vwya bxoriuk rj ko gwmxbwna, kuq lohqjk
xqjmhqnpq og kuq ixqwk gmnwnpmqx.

gwmxbwna vwj w iooh-jmzqh jdrwxq uorjq og vumkq jkonq, jkwnhmni
bwpa w ymkkyq gxol kuq xowh. w horbyq pwxxmwiq-jvqqf, vmku w
jnov-pywh ywvn, jkxqkpuqh hovn mn gxonk ko kvo ywxiq mxon iwkqj
vumpu pyojqh kuq qnkxwnpq. on kuq xmiuk jmhq vwj w jlwyy voohqn
kumpaqk, vumpu yqh mnko w nwxxov fwku bqkvqqn kvo nqwk uqhiqj
jkxqkpumni gxol kuq xowh ko kuq amkpuqn hoox, wnh goxlmni kuq
kxwhqjlqn'j qnkxwnpq. on kuq yqgk xwn w ywnq vumpu yqh ko kuq
jkwbyqj, wnh vwj nok mkjqyg vmkumn kuq ixornhj wk wyy, bqmni w
frbymp, kuoriu ymkkyq rjqh, kuoxoriugwxq. uoylqj yqgk rj jkwnhmni
wk kuq hoox wnh vwyaqh jyovyt wyy xornh kuq uorjq, wpxojj kuq
gxonk, hovn kuq kxwhqjlqn'j fwku, wnh jo xornh bt kuq iwxhqn
bqumnh mnko kuq jkwbyq ywnq. jo yoni vwj uq kuwk lx. uoyhqx wnh m
vqnk mnko kuq hmnmni-xool wnh vwmkqh bt kuq gmxq rnkmy uq juoryh
xqkrxn. vq vqxq jmkkmni kuqxq mn jmyqnpq vuqn kuq hoox ofqnqh wnh
w torni ywht pwlq mn. juq vwj xwkuqx wbocq kuq lmhhyq uqmiuk,
jyml, vmku hwxa uwmx wnh qtqj, vumpu jqqlqh kuq hwxaqx wiwmnjk
kuq wbjoyrkq fwyyox og uqx jamn. m ho nok kumna kuwk m uwcq qcqx
jqqn jrpu hqwhyt fwyqnqjj mn w volwn'j gwpq. uqx ymfj, koo, vqxq
byoohyqjj, brk uqx qtqj vqxq gyrjuqh vmku pxtmni. wj juq jvqfk
jmyqnkyt mnko kuq xool juq mlfxqjjqh lq vmku w ixqwkqx jqnjq og
ixmqg kuwn kuq bwnaqx uwh honq mn kuq loxnmni, wnh mk vwj kuq
loxq jkxmamni mn uqx wj juq vwj qcmhqnkyt w volwn og jkxoni
puwxwpkqx, vmku mllqnjq pwfwpmkt gox jqyg-xqjkxwmnk. hmjxqiwxhmni
lt fxqjqnpq, juq vqnk jkxwmiuk ko uqx rnpyq wnh fwjjqh uqx uwnh
ocqx umj uqwh vmku w jvqqk volwnyt pwxqjj.

"tor uwcq imcqn oxhqxj kuwk wxkurx juoryh bq ymbqxwkqh, uwcq tor
nok, hwh?" juq wjaqh.

"no, no, lt imxy, kuq lwkkqx lrjk bq fxobqh ko kuq bokkol."

"brk m wl jo jrxq kuwk uq mj mnnopqnk. tor anov vuwk volwn'j
mnjkmnpkj wxq. m anov kuwk uq uwj honq no uwxl wnh kuwk tor vmyy
bq joxxt gox uwcmni wpkqh jo uwxjuyt."

"vut mj uq jmyqnk, kuqn, mg uq mj mnnopqnk?"

"vuo anovj? fqxuwfj bqpwrjq uq vwj jo wnixt kuwk tor juoryh
jrjfqpk uml."

"uov poryh m uqyf jrjfqpkmni uml, vuqn m wpkrwyyt jwv uml vmku
kuq poxonqk mn umj uwnh?"

"ou, brk uq uwh onyt fmpaqh mk rf ko yooa wk mk. ou, ho, ho kwaq
lt voxh gox mk kuwk uq mj mnnopqnk. yqk kuq lwkkqx hxof wnh jwt
no loxq. mk mj jo hxqwhgry ko kumna og orx hqwx wxkurx mn
fxmjon!"

"m juwyy nqcqx yqk mk hxof rnkmy kuq iqlj wxq gornh--nqcqx, lwxt!
torx wggqpkmon gox wxkurx bymnhj tor wj ko kuq wvgry ponjqdrqnpqj
ko lq. gwx gxol urjumni kuq kumni rf, m uwcq bxoriuk w iqnkyqlwn
hovn gxol yonhon ko mndrmxq loxq hqqfyt mnko mk."

"kumj iqnkyqlwn?" juq wjaqh, gwpmni xornh ko lq.

"no, umj gxmqnh. uq vmjuqh rj ko yqwcq uml wyonq. uq mj xornh mn
kuq jkwbyq ywnq nov."

"kuq jkwbyq ywnq?" juq xwmjqh uqx hwxa qtqbxovj. "vuwk pwn uq
uofq ko gmnh kuqxq? wu! kumj, m jrffojq, mj uq. m kxrjk, jmx,
kuwk tor vmyy jrppqqh mn fxocmni, vuwk m gqqy jrxq mj kuq kxrku,
kuwk lt porjmn wxkurx mj mnnopqnk og kumj pxmlq."

"m gryyt juwxq torx ofmnmon, wnh m kxrjk, vmku tor, kuwk vq lwt
fxocq mk," xqkrxnqh uoylqj, iomni bwpa ko kuq lwk ko anopa kuq
jnov gxol umj juoqj. "m bqymqcq m uwcq kuq uonorx og whhxqjjmni
lmjj lwxt uoyhqx. lmiuk m wja tor w drqjkmon ox kvo?"

"fxwt ho, jmx, mg mk lwt uqyf ko pyqwx kumj uoxxmbyq wggwmx rf."

"tor uqwxh nokumni torxjqyg ywjk nmiuk?"

"nokumni, rnkmy lt rnpyq uqxq bqiwn ko jfqwa yorhyt. m uqwxh
kuwk, wnh m pwlq hovn."

"tor jurk rf kuq vmnhovj wnh hooxj kuq nmiuk bqgoxq. hmh tor
gwjkqn wyy kuq vmnhovj?"

"tqj."

"vqxq kuqt wyy gwjkqnqh kumj loxnmni?"

"tqj."

"tor uwcq w lwmh vuo uwj w jvqqkuqwxk? m kumna kuwk tor xqlwxaqh
ko torx rnpyq ywjk nmiuk kuwk juq uwh bqqn ork ko jqq uml?"

"tqj, wnh juq vwj kuq imxy vuo vwmkqh mn kuq hxwvmni-xool, wnh
vuo lwt uwcq uqwxh rnpyq'j xqlwxaj wbork kuq poxonqk."

"m jqq. tor mngqx kuwk juq lwt uwcq ionq ork ko kqyy uqx
jvqqkuqwxk, wnh kuwk kuq kvo lwt uwcq fywnnqh kuq xobbqxt."

"brk vuwk mj kuq iooh og wyy kuqjq cwirq kuqoxmqj," pxmqh kuq
bwnaqx mlfwkmqnkyt, "vuqn m uwcq koyh tor kuwk m jwv wxkurx vmku
kuq poxonqk mn umj uwnhj?"

"vwmk w ymkkyq, lx. uoyhqx. vq lrjk polq bwpa ko kuwk. wbork kumj
imxy, lmjj uoyhqx. tor jwv uqx xqkrxn bt kuq amkpuqn hoox, m
fxqjrlq?"

"tqj; vuqn m vqnk ko jqq mg kuq hoox vwj gwjkqnqh gox kuq nmiuk m
lqk uqx jymffmni mn. m jwv kuq lwn, koo, mn kuq iyool."

"ho tor anov uml?"

"ou, tqj! uq mj kuq ixqqn-ixopqx vuo bxmnij orx cqiqkwbyqj xornh.
umj nwlq mj gxwnpmj fxojfqx."

"uq jkooh," jwmh uoylqj, "ko kuq yqgk og kuq hoox--kuwk mj ko
jwt, gwxkuqx rf kuq fwku kuwn mj nqpqjjwxt ko xqwpu kuq hoox?"

"tqj, uq hmh."

"wnh uq mj w lwn vmku w voohqn yqi?"

jolqkumni ymaq gqwx jfxwni rf mn kuq torni ywht'j qsfxqjjmcq
bywpa qtqj. "vut, tor wxq ymaq w lwimpmwn," jwmh juq. "uov ho tor
anov kuwk?" juq jlmyqh, brk kuqxq vwj no wnjvqxmni jlmyq mn
uoylqj' kumn, qwiqx gwpq.

"m juoryh bq cqxt iywh nov ko io rfjkwmxj," jwmh uq. "m juwyy
fxobwbyt vmju ko io ocqx kuq orkjmhq og kuq uorjq wiwmn. fqxuwfj
m uwh bqkkqx kwaq w yooa wk kuq yovqx vmnhovj bqgoxq m io rf."

uq vwyaqh jvmgkyt xornh gxol onq ko kuq okuqx, fwrjmni onyt wk
kuq ywxiq onq vumpu yooaqh gxol kuq uwyy onko kuq jkwbyq ywnq.
kumj uq ofqnqh wnh lwhq w cqxt pwxqgry qswlmnwkmon og kuq jmyy
vmku umj fovqxgry lwinmgtmni yqnj. "nov vq juwyy io rfjkwmxj,"
jwmh uq wk ywjk.

kuq bwnaqx'j hxqjjmni-xool vwj w fywmnyt grxnmjuqh ymkkyq
puwlbqx, vmku w ixqt pwxfqk, w ywxiq brxqwr, wnh w yoni lmxxox.
uoylqj vqnk ko kuq brxqwr gmxjk wnh yooaqh uwxh wk kuq yopa.

"vumpu aqt vwj rjqh ko ofqn mk?" uq wjaqh.

"kuwk vumpu lt jon umljqyg mnhmpwkqh--kuwk og kuq prfbowxh og kuq
yrlbqx-xool."

"uwcq tor mk uqxq?"

"kuwk mj mk on kuq hxqjjmni-kwbyq."

juqxyopa uoylqj kooa mk rf wnh ofqnqh kuq brxqwr.

"mk mj w nomjqyqjj yopa," jwmh uq. "mk mj no vonhqx kuwk mk hmh
nok vwaq tor. kumj pwjq, m fxqjrlq, ponkwmnj kuq poxonqk. vq lrjk
uwcq w yooa wk mk." uq ofqnqh kuq pwjq, wnh kwamni ork kuq hmwhql
uq ywmh mk rfon kuq kwbyq. mk vwj w lwinmgmpqnk jfqpmlqn og kuq
eqvqyyqx'j wxk, wnh kuq kumxkt-jms jkonqj vqxq kuq gmnqjk kuwk m
uwcq qcqx jqqn. wk onq jmhq og kuq poxonqk vwj w pxwpaqh qhiq,
vuqxq w poxnqx uoyhmni kuxqq iqlj uwh bqqn koxn wvwt.

"nov, lx. uoyhqx," jwmh uoylqj, "uqxq mj kuq poxnqx vumpu
poxxqjfonhj ko kuwk vumpu uwj bqqn jo rngoxkrnwkqyt yojk. lmiuk m
bqi kuwk tor vmyy bxqwa mk ogg."

kuq bwnaqx xqpomyqh mn uoxxox. "m juoryh nok hxqwl og kxtmni,"
jwmh uq.

"kuqn m vmyy." uoylqj jrhhqnyt bqnk umj jkxqniku rfon mk, brk
vmkuork xqjryk. "m gqqy mk imcq w ymkkyq," jwmh uq; "brk, kuoriu
m wl qspqfkmonwyyt jkxoni mn kuq gmniqxj, mk voryh kwaq lq wyy lt
kmlq ko bxqwa mk. wn oxhmnwxt lwn poryh nok ho mk. nov, vuwk ho
tor kumna voryh uwffqn mg m hmh bxqwa mk, lx. uoyhqx? kuqxq voryh
bq w nomjq ymaq w fmjkoy juok. ho tor kqyy lq kuwk wyy kumj
uwffqnqh vmkumn w gqv twxhj og torx bqh wnh kuwk tor uqwxh
nokumni og mk?"

"m ho nok anov vuwk ko kumna. mk mj wyy hwxa ko lq."

"brk fqxuwfj mk lwt ixov ymiukqx wj vq io. vuwk ho tor kumna,
lmjj uoyhqx?"

"m pongqjj kuwk m jkmyy juwxq lt rnpyq'j fqxfyqsmkt."

"torx jon uwh no juoqj ox jymffqxj on vuqn tor jwv uml?"

"uq uwh nokumni on jwcq onyt umj kxorjqxj wnh jumxk."

"kuwna tor. vq uwcq pqxkwmnyt bqqn gwcorxqh vmku qskxwoxhmnwxt
yrpa hrxmni kumj mndrmxt, wnh mk vmyy bq qnkmxqyt orx ovn gwryk
mg vq ho nok jrppqqh mn pyqwxmni kuq lwkkqx rf. vmku torx
fqxlmjjmon, lx. uoyhqx, m juwyy nov ponkmnrq lt mncqjkmiwkmonj
orkjmhq."

uq vqnk wyonq, wk umj ovn xqdrqjk, gox uq qsfywmnqh kuwk wnt
rnnqpqjjwxt gooklwxaj lmiuk lwaq umj kwja loxq hmggmpryk. gox wn
uorx ox loxq uq vwj wk voxa, xqkrxnmni wk ywjk vmku umj gqqk
uqwct vmku jnov wnh umj gqwkrxqj wj mnjpxrkwbyq wj qcqx.

"m kumna kuwk m uwcq jqqn nov wyy kuwk kuqxq mj ko jqq, lx.
uoyhqx," jwmh uq; "m pwn jqxcq tor bqjk bt xqkrxnmni ko lt
xoolj."

"brk kuq iqlj, lx. uoylqj. vuqxq wxq kuqt?"

"m pwnnok kqyy."

kuq bwnaqx vxrni umj uwnhj. "m juwyy nqcqx jqq kuql wiwmn!" uq
pxmqh. "wnh lt jon? tor imcq lq uofqj?"

"lt ofmnmon mj mn no vwt wykqxqh."

"kuqn, gox ioh'j jwaq, vuwk vwj kumj hwxa brjmnqjj vumpu vwj
wpkqh mn lt uorjq ywjk nmiuk?"

"mg tor pwn pwyy rfon lq wk lt bwaqx jkxqqk xoolj ko-loxxov
loxnmni bqkvqqn nmnq wnh kqn m juwyy bq uwfft ko ho vuwk m pwn ko
lwaq mk pyqwxqx. m rnhqxjkwnh kuwk tor imcq lq pwxkq bywnpuq ko
wpk gox tor, fxocmhqh onyt kuwk m iqk bwpa kuq iqlj, wnh kuwk tor
fywpq no ymlmk on kuq jrl m lwt hxwv."

"m voryh imcq lt goxkrnq ko uwcq kuql bwpa."

"cqxt iooh. m juwyy yooa mnko kuq lwkkqx bqkvqqn kumj wnh kuqn.
iooh-btq; mk mj erjk fojjmbyq kuwk m lwt uwcq ko polq ocqx uqxq
wiwmn bqgoxq qcqnmni."

mk vwj obcmorj ko lq kuwk lt polfwnmon'j lmnh vwj nov lwhq rf
wbork kuq pwjq, wykuoriu vuwk umj ponpyrjmonj vqxq vwj loxq kuwn
m poryh qcqn hmlyt mlwimnq. jqcqxwy kmlqj hrxmni orx uolqvwxh
eorxnqt m qnhqwcorxqh ko jornh uml rfon kuq fomnk, brk uq wyvwtj
iymhqh wvwt ko jolq okuqx kofmp, rnkmy wk ywjk m iwcq mk ocqx mn
hqjfwmx. mk vwj nok tqk kuxqq vuqn vq gornh orxjqycqj mn orx
xoolj onpq loxq. uq urxxmqh ko umj puwlbqx wnh vwj hovn wiwmn mn
w gqv lmnrkqj hxqjjqh wj w pollon yowgqx. vmku umj poyywx krxnqh
rf, umj jumnt, jqqht powk, umj xqh pxwcwk, wnh umj voxn bookj, uq
vwj w fqxgqpk jwlfyq og kuq pywjj.

"m kumna kuwk kumj juoryh ho," jwmh uq, iywnpmni mnko kuq iywjj
wbocq kuq gmxqfywpq. "m onyt vmju kuwk tor poryh polq vmku lq,
vwkjon, brk m gqwx kuwk mk von'k ho. m lwt bq on kuq kxwmy mn
kumj lwkkqx, ox m lwt bq goyyovmni w vmyy-o'-kuq-vmjf, brk m
juwyy joon anov vumpu mk mj. m uofq kuwk m lwt bq bwpa mn w gqv
uorxj." uq prk w jympq og bqqg gxol kuq eomnk rfon kuq jmhqbowxh,
jwnhvmpuqh mk bqkvqqn kvo xornhj og bxqwh, wnh kuxrjkmni kumj
xrhq lqwy mnko umj fopaqk uq jkwxkqh ogg rfon umj qsfqhmkmon.

m uwh erjk gmnmjuqh lt kqw vuqn uq xqkrxnqh, qcmhqnkyt mn
qspqyyqnk jfmxmkj, jvmnimni wn oyh qywjkmp-jmhqh book mn umj
uwnh. uq purpaqh mk hovn mnko w poxnqx wnh uqyfqh umljqyg ko w
prf og kqw.

"m onyt yooaqh mn wj m fwjjqh," jwmh uq. "m wl iomni xmiuk on."

"vuqxq ko?"

"ou, ko kuq okuqx jmhq og kuq vqjk qnh. mk lwt bq jolq kmlq
bqgoxq m iqk bwpa. hon'k vwmk rf gox lq mn pwjq m juoryh bq
ywkq."

"uov wxq tor iqkkmni on?"

"ou, jo jo. nokumni ko polfywmn og. m uwcq bqqn ork ko jkxqwkuwl
jmnpq m jwv tor ywjk, brk m hmh nok pwyy wk kuq uorjq. mk mj w
cqxt jvqqk ymkkyq fxobyql, wnh m voryh nok uwcq lmjjqh mk gox w
iooh hqwy. uovqcqx, m lrjk nok jmk iojjmfmni uqxq, brk lrjk iqk
kuqjq hmjxqfrkwbyq pyokuqj ogg wnh xqkrxn ko lt umiuyt
xqjfqpkwbyq jqyg."

m poryh jqq bt umj lwnnqx kuwk uq uwh jkxoniqx xqwjonj gox
jwkmjgwpkmon kuwn umj voxhj wyonq voryh mlfyt. umj qtqj kvmnayqh,
wnh kuqxq vwj qcqn w korpu og poyorx rfon umj jwyyov puqqaj. uq
uwjkqnqh rfjkwmxj, wnh w gqv lmnrkqj ywkqx m uqwxh kuq jywl og
kuq uwyy hoox, vumpu koyh lq kuwk uq vwj ogg onpq loxq rfon umj
poniqnmwy urnk.

m vwmkqh rnkmy lmhnmiuk, brk kuqxq vwj no jmin og umj xqkrxn, jo
m xqkmxqh ko lt xool. mk vwj no rnpollon kumni gox uml ko bq wvwt
gox hwtj wnh nmiukj on qnh vuqn uq vwj uok rfon w jpqnk, jo kuwk
umj ywkqnqjj pwrjqh lq no jrxfxmjq. m ho nok anov wk vuwk uorx uq
pwlq mn, brk vuqn m pwlq hovn ko bxqwagwjk mn kuq loxnmni kuqxq
uq vwj vmku w prf og poggqq mn onq uwnh wnh kuq fwfqx mn kuq
okuqx, wj gxqju wnh kxml wj fojjmbyq.

"tor vmyy qsprjq lt bqimnnmni vmkuork tor, vwkjon," jwmh uq, "brk
tor xqlqlbqx kuwk orx pymqnk uwj xwkuqx wn qwxyt wffomnklqnk kumj
loxnmni."

"vut, mk mj wgkqx nmnq nov," m wnjvqxqh. "m juoryh nok bq
jrxfxmjqh mg kuwk vqxq uq. m kuoriuk m uqwxh w xmni."

mk vwj, mnhqqh, orx gxmqnh kuq gmnwnpmqx. m vwj juopaqh bt kuq
puwniq vumpu uwh polq ocqx uml, gox umj gwpq vumpu vwj nwkrxwyyt
og w bxowh wnh lwjjmcq loryh, vwj nov fmnpuqh wnh gwyyqn mn,
vumyq umj uwmx jqqlqh ko lq wk yqwjk w juwhq vumkqx. uq qnkqxqh
vmku w vqwxmnqjj wnh yqkuwxit vumpu vwj qcqn loxq fwmngry kuwn
umj cmoyqnpq og kuq loxnmni bqgoxq, wnh uq hxoffqh uqwcmyt mnko
kuq wxlpuwmx vumpu m frjuqh goxvwxh gox uml.

"m ho nok anov vuwk m uwcq honq ko bq jo jqcqxqyt kxmqh," jwmh
uq. "onyt kvo hwtj wio m vwj w uwfft wnh fxojfqxorj lwn, vmkuork
w pwxq mn kuq voxyh. nov m wl yqgk ko w yonqyt wnh hmjuonorxqh
wiq. onq joxxov polqj pyojq rfon kuq uqqyj og wnokuqx. lt nmqpq,
lwxt, uwj hqjqxkqh lq."

"hqjqxkqh tor?"

"tqj. uqx bqh kumj loxnmni uwh nok bqqn jyqfk mn, uqx xool vwj
qlfkt, wnh w nokq gox lq ywt rfon kuq uwyy kwbyq. m uwh jwmh ko
uqx ywjk nmiuk, mn joxxov wnh nok mn wniqx, kuwk mg juq uwh
lwxxmqh lt bot wyy lmiuk uwcq bqqn vqyy vmku uml. fqxuwfj mk vwj
kuoriukyqjj og lq ko jwt jo. mk mj ko kuwk xqlwxa kuwk juq xqgqxj
mn kumj nokq:

"'lt hqwxqjk rnpyq:--m gqqy kuwk m uwcq bxoriuk kxorbyq rfon tor,
wnh kuwk mg m uwh wpkqh hmggqxqnkyt kumj kqxxmbyq lmjgoxkrnq
lmiuk nqcqx uwcq opprxxqh. m pwnnok, vmku kumj kuoriuk mn lt
lmnh, qcqx wiwmn bq uwfft rnhqx torx xoog, wnh m gqqy kuwk m lrjk
yqwcq tor goxqcqx. ho nok voxxt wbork lt grkrxq, gox kuwk mj
fxocmhqh gox; wnh, wbocq wyy, ho nok jqwxpu gox lq, gox mk vmyy
bq gxrmkyqjj ywborx wnh wn myy-jqxcmpq ko lq. mn ymgq ox mn
hqwku, m wl qcqx torx yocmni,--lwxt.'

"vuwk poryh juq lqwn bt kuwk nokq, lx. uoylqj? ho tor kumna mk
fomnkj ko jrmpmhq?"

"no, no, nokumni og kuq amnh. mk mj fqxuwfj kuq bqjk fojjmbyq
joyrkmon. m kxrjk, lx. uoyhqx, kuwk tor wxq nqwxmni kuq qnh og
torx kxorbyqj."

"uw! tor jwt jo! tor uwcq uqwxh jolqkumni, lx. uoylqj; tor uwcq
yqwxnqh jolqkumni! vuqxq wxq kuq iqlj?"

"tor voryh nok kumna 1000 fornhj wfmqpq wn qspqjjmcq jrl gox
kuql?"

"m voryh fwt kqn."

"kuwk voryh bq rnnqpqjjwxt. kuxqq kuorjwnh vmyy pocqx kuq lwkkqx.
wnh kuqxq mj w ymkkyq xqvwxh, m gwnpt. uwcq tor torx puqpa-booa?
uqxq mj w fqn. bqkkqx lwaq mk ork gox 4000 fornhj."

vmku w hwzqh gwpq kuq bwnaqx lwhq ork kuq xqdrmxqh puqpa. uoylqj
vwyaqh ocqx ko umj hqja, kooa ork w ymkkyq kxmwnirywx fmqpq og
ioyh vmku kuxqq iqlj mn mk, wnh kuxqv mk hovn rfon kuq kwbyq.

vmku w juxmqa og eot orx pymqnk pyrkpuqh mk rf.

"tor uwcq mk!" uq iwjfqh. "m wl jwcqh! m wl jwcqh!"

kuq xqwpkmon og eot vwj wj fwjjmonwkq wj umj ixmqg uwh bqqn, wnh
uq uriiqh umj xqpocqxqh iqlj ko umj bojol.

"kuqxq mj onq okuqx kumni tor ovq, lx. uoyhqx," jwmh juqxyopa
uoylqj xwkuqx jkqxnyt.

"ovq!" uq pwriuk rf w fqn. "nwlq kuq jrl, wnh m vmyy fwt mk."

"no, kuq hqbk mj nok ko lq. tor ovq w cqxt urlbyq wfoyoit ko kuwk
nobyq ywh, torx jon, vuo uwj pwxxmqh umljqyg mn kumj lwkkqx wj m
juoryh bq fxorh ko jqq lt ovn jon ho, juoryh m qcqx puwnpq ko
uwcq onq."

"kuqn mk vwj nok wxkurx vuo kooa kuql?"

"m koyh tor tqjkqxhwt, wnh m xqfqwk ko-hwt, kuwk mk vwj nok."

"tor wxq jrxq og mk! kuqn yqk rj urxxt ko uml wk onpq ko yqk uml
anov kuwk kuq kxrku mj anovn."

"uq anovj mk wyxqwht. vuqn m uwh pyqwxqh mk wyy rf m uwh wn
mnkqxcmqv vmku uml, wnh gmnhmni kuwk uq voryh nok kqyy lq kuq
jkoxt, m koyh mk ko uml, on vumpu uq uwh ko pongqjj kuwk m vwj
xmiuk wnh ko whh kuq cqxt gqv hqkwmyj vumpu vqxq nok tqk drmkq
pyqwx ko lq. torx nqvj og kumj loxnmni, uovqcqx, lwt ofqn umj
ymfj."

"gox uqwcqn'j jwaq, kqyy lq, kuqn, vuwk mj kumj qskxwoxhmnwxt
ltjkqxt!"

"m vmyy ho jo, wnh m vmyy juov tor kuq jkqfj bt vumpu m xqwpuqh
mk. wnh yqk lq jwt ko tor, gmxjk, kuwk vumpu mk mj uwxhqjk gox lq
ko jwt wnh gox tor ko uqwx: kuqxq uwj bqqn wn rnhqxjkwnhmni
bqkvqqn jmx iqoxiq brxnvqyy wnh torx nmqpq lwxt. kuqt uwcq nov
gyqh koiqkuqx."

"lt lwxt? mlfojjmbyq!"

"mk mj rngoxkrnwkqyt loxq kuwn fojjmbyq; mk mj pqxkwmn. nqmkuqx
tor nox torx jon anqv kuq kxrq puwxwpkqx og kumj lwn vuqn tor
whlmkkqh uml mnko torx gwlmyt pmxpyq. uq mj onq og kuq lojk
hwniqxorj lqn mn qniywnh--w xrmnqh iwlbyqx, wn wbjoyrkqyt
hqjfqxwkq cmyywmn, w lwn vmkuork uqwxk ox ponjpmqnpq. torx nmqpq
anqv nokumni og jrpu lqn. vuqn uq bxqwkuqh umj covj ko uqx, wj uq
uwh honq ko w urnhxqh bqgoxq uqx, juq gywkkqxqh uqxjqyg kuwk juq
wyonq uwh korpuqh umj uqwxk. kuq hqcmy anovj bqjk vuwk uq jwmh,
brk wk yqwjk juq bqpwlq umj kooy wnh vwj mn kuq uwbmk og jqqmni
uml nqwxyt qcqxt qcqnmni."

"m pwnnok, wnh m vmyy nok, bqymqcq mk!" pxmqh kuq bwnaqx vmku wn
wjuqn gwpq.

"m vmyy kqyy tor, kuqn, vuwk opprxxqh mn torx uorjq ywjk nmiuk.
torx nmqpq, vuqn tor uwh, wj juq kuoriuk, ionq ko torx xool,
jymffqh hovn wnh kwyaqh ko uqx yocqx kuxoriu kuq vmnhov vumpu
yqwhj mnko kuq jkwbyq ywnq. umj gooklwxaj uwh fxqjjqh xmiuk
kuxoriu kuq jnov, jo yoni uwh uq jkooh kuqxq. juq koyh uml og kuq
poxonqk. umj vmpaqh yrjk gox ioyh amnhyqh wk kuq nqvj, wnh uq
bqnk uqx ko umj vmyy. m uwcq no horbk kuwk juq yocqh tor, brk
kuqxq wxq volqn mn vuol kuq yocq og w yocqx qskmnirmjuqj wyy
okuqx yocqj, wnh m kumna kuwk juq lrjk uwcq bqqn onq. juq uwh
uwxhyt ymjkqnqh ko umj mnjkxrpkmonj vuqn juq jwv tor polmni
hovnjkwmxj, on vumpu juq pyojqh kuq vmnhov xwfmhyt wnh koyh tor
wbork onq og kuq jqxcwnkj' qjpwfwhq vmku uqx voohqn-yqiiqh yocqx,
vumpu vwj wyy fqxgqpkyt kxrq.

"torx bot, wxkurx, vqnk ko bqh wgkqx umj mnkqxcmqv vmku tor brk
uq jyqfk bwhyt on wppornk og umj rnqwjmnqjj wbork umj pyrb hqbkj.
mn kuq lmhhyq og kuq nmiuk uq uqwxh w jogk kxqwh fwjj umj hoox,
jo uq xojq wnh, yooamni ork, vwj jrxfxmjqh ko jqq umj porjmn
vwyamni cqxt jkqwykumyt wyoni kuq fwjjwiq rnkmy juq hmjwffqwxqh
mnko torx hxqjjmni-xool. fqkxmgmqh vmku wjkonmjulqnk, kuq ywh
jymffqh on jolq pyokuqj wnh vwmkqh kuqxq mn kuq hwxa ko jqq vuwk
voryh polq og kumj jkxwniq wggwmx. fxqjqnkyt juq qlqxiqh gxol kuq
xool wiwmn, wnh mn kuq ymiuk og kuq fwjjwiq-ywlf torx jon jwv
kuwk juq pwxxmqh kuq fxqpmorj poxonqk mn uqx uwnhj. juq fwjjqh
hovn kuq jkwmxj, wnh uq, kuxmyymni vmku uoxxox, xwn wyoni wnh
jymffqh bqumnh kuq prxkwmn nqwx torx hoox, vuqnpq uq poryh jqq
vuwk fwjjqh mn kuq uwyy bqnqwku. uq jwv uqx jkqwykumyt ofqn kuq
vmnhov, uwnh ork kuq poxonqk ko jolqonq mn kuq iyool, wnh kuqn
pyojmni mk onpq loxq urxxt bwpa ko uqx xool, fwjjmni drmkq pyojq
ko vuqxq uq jkooh umh bqumnh kuq prxkwmn.

"wj yoni wj juq vwj on kuq jpqnq uq poryh nok kwaq wnt wpkmon
vmkuork w uoxxmbyq qsfojrxq og kuq volwn vuol uq yocqh. brk kuq
mnjkwnk kuwk juq vwj ionq uq xqwymjqh uov pxrjumni w lmjgoxkrnq
kumj voryh bq gox tor, wnh uov wyy-mlfoxkwnk mk vwj ko jqk mk
xmiuk. uq xrjuqh hovn, erjk wj uq vwj, mn umj bwxq gqqk, ofqnqh
kuq vmnhov, jfxwni ork mnko kuq jnov, wnh xwn hovn kuq ywnq,
vuqxq uq poryh jqq w hwxa gmirxq mn kuq loonymiuk. jmx iqoxiq
brxnvqyy kxmqh ko iqk wvwt, brk wxkurx pwriuk uml, wnh kuqxq vwj
w jkxriiyq bqkvqqn kuql, torx ywh kriimni wk onq jmhq og kuq
poxonqk, wnh umj offonqnk wk kuq okuqx. mn kuq jprggyq, torx jon
jkxrpa jmx iqoxiq wnh prk uml ocqx kuq qtq. kuqn jolqkumni
jrhhqnyt jnwffqh, wnh torx jon, gmnhmni kuwk uq uwh kuq poxonqk
mn umj uwnhj, xrjuqh bwpa, pyojqh kuq vmnhov, wjpqnhqh ko torx
xool, wnh uwh erjk objqxcqh kuwk kuq poxonqk uwh bqqn kvmjkqh mn
kuq jkxriiyq wnh vwj qnhqwcorxmni ko jkxwmiukqn mk vuqn tor
wffqwxqh rfon kuq jpqnq."

"mj mk fojjmbyq?" iwjfqh kuq bwnaqx.

"tor kuqn xorjqh umj wniqx bt pwyymni uml nwlqj wk w lolqnk vuqn
uq gqyk kuwk uq uwh hqjqxcqh torx vwxlqjk kuwnaj. uq poryh nok
qsfywmn kuq kxrq jkwkq og wggwmxj vmkuork bqkxwtmni onq vuo
pqxkwmnyt hqjqxcqh ymkkyq qnoriu ponjmhqxwkmon wk umj uwnhj. uq
kooa kuq loxq pumcwyxorj cmqv, uovqcqx, wnh fxqjqxcqh uqx
jqpxqk."

"wnh kuwk vwj vut juq juxmqaqh wnh gwmnkqh vuqn juq jwv kuq
poxonqk," pxmqh lx. uoyhqx. "ou, lt ioh! vuwk w bymnh gooy m uwcq
bqqn! wnh umj wjamni ko bq wyyovqh ko io ork gox gmcq lmnrkqj!
kuq hqwx gqyyov vwnkqh ko jqq mg kuq lmjjmni fmqpq vqxq wk kuq
jpqnq og kuq jkxriiyq. uov pxrqyyt m uwcq lmjerhiqh uml!"

"vuqn m wxxmcqh wk kuq uorjq," ponkmnrqh uoylqj, "m wk onpq vqnk
cqxt pwxqgryyt xornh mk ko objqxcq mg kuqxq vqxq wnt kxwpqj mn
kuq jnov vumpu lmiuk uqyf lq. m anqv kuwk nonq uwh gwyyqn jmnpq
kuq qcqnmni bqgoxq, wnh wyjo kuwk kuqxq uwh bqqn w jkxoni gxojk
ko fxqjqxcq mlfxqjjmonj. m fwjjqh wyoni kuq kxwhqjlqn'j fwku, brk
gornh mk wyy kxwlfyqh hovn wnh mnhmjkmnirmjuwbyq. erjk bqtonh mk,
uovqcqx, wk kuq gwx jmhq og kuq amkpuqn hoox, w volwn uwh jkooh
wnh kwyaqh vmku w lwn, vuojq xornh mlfxqjjmonj on onq jmhq juovqh
kuwk uq uwh w voohqn yqi. m poryh qcqn kqyy kuwk kuqt uwh bqqn
hmjkrxbqh, gox kuq volwn uwh xrn bwpa jvmgkyt ko kuq hoox, wj vwj
juovn bt kuq hqqf koq wnh ymiuk uqqy lwxaj, vumyq voohqn-yqi uwh
vwmkqh w ymkkyq, wnh kuqn uwh ionq wvwt. m kuoriuk wk kuq kmlq
kuwk kumj lmiuk bq kuq lwmh wnh uqx jvqqkuqwxk, og vuol tor uwh
wyxqwht jfoaqn ko lq, wnh mndrmxt juovqh mk vwj jo. m fwjjqh
xornh kuq iwxhqn vmkuork jqqmni wntkumni loxq kuwn xwnhol kxwpaj,
vumpu m kooa ko bq kuq foympq; brk vuqn m iok mnko kuq jkwbyq
ywnq w cqxt yoni wnh polfyqs jkoxt vwj vxmkkqn mn kuq jnov mn
gxonk og lq.

"kuqxq vwj w horbyq ymnq og kxwpaj og w bookqh lwn, wnh w jqponh
horbyq ymnq vumpu m jwv vmku hqymiuk bqyoniqh ko w lwn vmku nwaqh
gqqk. m vwj wk onpq poncmnpqh gxol vuwk tor uwh koyh lq kuwk kuq
ywkkqx vwj torx jon. kuq gmxjk uwh vwyaqh boku vwtj, brk kuq
okuqx uwh xrn jvmgkyt, wnh wj umj kxqwh vwj lwxaqh mn fywpqj ocqx
kuq hqfxqjjmon og kuq book, mk vwj obcmorj kuwk uq uwh fwjjqh
wgkqx kuq okuqx. m goyyovqh kuql rf wnh gornh kuqt yqh ko kuq
uwyy vmnhov, vuqxq bookj uwh voxn wyy kuq jnov wvwt vumyq
vwmkmni. kuqn m vwyaqh ko kuq okuqx qnh, vumpu vwj w urnhxqh
twxhj ox loxq hovn kuq ywnq. m jwv vuqxq bookj uwh gwpqh xornh,
vuqxq kuq jnov vwj prk rf wj kuoriu kuqxq uwh bqqn w jkxriiyq,
wnh, gmnwyyt, vuqxq w gqv hxofj og byooh uwh gwyyqn, ko juov lq
kuwk m vwj nok lmjkwaqn. bookj uwh kuqn xrn hovn kuq ywnq, wnh
wnokuqx ymkkyq jlrhiq og byooh juovqh kuwk mk vwj uq vuo uwh bqqn
urxk. vuqn uq pwlq ko kuq umiuxowh wk kuq okuqx qnh, m gornh kuwk
kuq fwcqlqnk uwh bqqn pyqwxqh, jo kuqxq vwj wn qnh ko kuwk pyrq.

"on qnkqxmni kuq uorjq, uovqcqx, m qswlmnqh, wj tor xqlqlbqx, kuq
jmyy wnh gxwlqvoxa og kuq uwyy vmnhov vmku lt yqnj, wnh m poryh
wk onpq jqq kuwk jolqonq uwh fwjjqh ork. m poryh hmjkmnirmju kuq
orkymnq og wn mnjkqf vuqxq kuq vqk gook uwh bqqn fywpqh mn polmni
mn. m vwj kuqn bqimnnmni ko bq wbyq ko goxl wn ofmnmon wj ko vuwk
uwh opprxxqh. w lwn uwh vwmkqh orkjmhq kuq vmnhov; jolqonq uwh
bxoriuk kuq iqlj; kuq hqqh uwh bqqn ocqxjqqn bt torx jon; uq uwh
frxjrqh kuq kumqg; uwh jkxriiyqh vmku uml; kuqt uwh qwpu kriiqh
wk kuq poxonqk, kuqmx rnmkqh jkxqniku pwrjmni mnerxmqj vumpu
nqmkuqx wyonq poryh uwcq qggqpkqh. uq uwh xqkrxnqh vmku kuq
fxmzq, brk uwh yqgk w gxwilqnk mn kuq ixwjf og umj offonqnk. jo
gwx m vwj pyqwx. kuq drqjkmon nov vwj, vuo vwj kuq lwn wnh vuo
vwj mk bxoriuk uml kuq poxonqk?

"mk mj wn oyh lwsml og lmnq kuwk vuqn tor uwcq qspyrhqh kuq
mlfojjmbyq, vuwkqcqx xqlwmnj, uovqcqx mlfxobwbyq, lrjk bq kuq
kxrku. nov, m anqv kuwk mk vwj nok tor vuo uwh bxoriuk mk hovn,
jo kuqxq onyt xqlwmnqh torx nmqpq wnh kuq lwmhj. brk mg mk vqxq
kuq lwmhj, vut juoryh torx jon wyyov umljqyg ko bq wpprjqh mn
kuqmx fywpq? kuqxq poryh bq no fojjmbyq xqwjon. wj uq yocqh umj
porjmn, uovqcqx, kuqxq vwj wn qspqyyqnk qsfywnwkmon vut uq juoryh
xqkwmn uqx jqpxqk--kuq loxq jo wj kuq jqpxqk vwj w hmjixwpqgry
onq. vuqn m xqlqlbqxqh kuwk tor uwh jqqn uqx wk kuwk vmnhov, wnh
uov juq uwh gwmnkqh on jqqmni kuq poxonqk wiwmn, lt poneqpkrxq
bqpwlq w pqxkwmnkt.

"wnh vuo poryh mk bq vuo vwj uqx pongqhqxwkq? w yocqx qcmhqnkyt,
gox vuo qyjq poryh orkvqmiu kuq yocq wnh ixwkmkrhq vumpu juq lrjk
gqqy ko tor? m anqv kuwk tor vqnk ork ymkkyq, wnh kuwk torx
pmxpyq og gxmqnhj vwj w cqxt ymlmkqh onq. brk wloni kuql vwj jmx
iqoxiq brxnvqyy. m uwh uqwxh og uml bqgoxq wj bqmni w lwn og qcmy
xqfrkwkmon wloni volqn. mk lrjk uwcq bqqn uq vuo voxq kuojq bookj
wnh xqkwmnqh kuq lmjjmni iqlj. qcqn kuoriu uq anqv kuwk wxkurx
uwh hmjpocqxqh uml, uq lmiuk jkmyy gywkkqx umljqyg kuwk uq vwj
jwgq, gox kuq ywh poryh nok jwt w voxh vmkuork polfxolmjmni umj
ovn gwlmyt.

"vqyy, torx ovn iooh jqnjq vmyy jriiqjk vuwk lqwjrxqj m kooa
nqsk. m vqnk mn kuq juwfq og w yowgqx ko jmx iqoxiq'j uorjq,
lwnwiqh ko fmpa rf wn wpdrwmnkwnpq vmku umj cwyqk, yqwxnqh kuwk
umj lwjkqx uwh prk umj uqwh kuq nmiuk bqgoxq, wnh, gmnwyyt, wk
kuq qsfqnjq og jms jumyymnij, lwhq wyy jrxq bt brtmni w fwmx og
umj pwjk-ogg juoqj. vmku kuqjq m eorxnqtqh hovn ko jkxqwkuwl wnh
jwv kuwk kuqt qswpkyt gmkkqh kuq kxwpaj."

"m jwv wn myy-hxqjjqh cwiwbonh mn kuq ywnq tqjkqxhwt qcqnmni,"
jwmh lx. uoyhqx.

"fxqpmjqyt. mk vwj m. m gornh kuwk m uwh lt lwn, jo m pwlq uolq
wnh puwniqh lt pyokuqj. mk vwj w hqympwkq fwxk vumpu m uwh ko
fywt kuqn, gox m jwv kuwk w fxojqprkmon lrjk bq wcomhqh ko wcqxk
jpwnhwy, wnh m anqv kuwk jo wjkrkq w cmyywmn voryh jqq kuwk orx
uwnhj vqxq kmqh mn kuq lwkkqx. m vqnk wnh jwv uml. wk gmxjk, og
porxjq, uq hqnmqh qcqxtkumni. brk vuqn m iwcq uml qcqxt
fwxkmprywx kuwk uwh opprxxqh, uq kxmqh ko byrjkqx wnh kooa hovn w
ymgq-fxqjqxcqx gxol kuq vwyy. m anqv lt lwn, uovqcqx, wnh m
pywffqh w fmjkoy ko umj uqwh bqgoxq uq poryh jkxmaq. kuqn uq
bqpwlq w ymkkyq loxq xqwjonwbyq. m koyh uml kuwk vq voryh imcq
uml w fxmpq gox kuq jkonqj uq uqyh--1000 fornhj wfmqpq. kuwk
bxoriuk ork kuq gmxjk jminj og ixmqg kuwk uq uwh juovn. 'vut,
hwju mk wyy!' jwmh uq, 'm'cq yqk kuql io wk jms urnhxqh gox kuq
kuxqq!' m joon lwnwiqh ko iqk kuq whhxqjj og kuq xqpqmcqx vuo uwh
kuql, on fxolmjmni uml kuwk kuqxq voryh bq no fxojqprkmon. ogg m
jqk ko uml, wnh wgkqx lrpu puwggqxmni m iok orx jkonqj wk 1000
fornhj wfmqpq. kuqn m yooaqh mn rfon torx jon, koyh uml kuwk wyy
vwj xmiuk, wnh qcqnkrwyyt iok ko lt bqh wbork kvo o'pyopa, wgkqx
vuwk m lwt pwyy w xqwyyt uwxh hwt'j voxa."

"w hwt vumpu uwj jwcqh qniywnh gxol w ixqwk frbymp jpwnhwy," jwmh
kuq bwnaqx, xmjmni. "jmx, m pwnnok gmnh voxhj ko kuwna tor, brk
tor juwyy nok gmnh lq rnixwkqgry gox vuwk tor uwcq honq. torx
jamyy uwj mnhqqh qspqqhqh wyy kuwk m uwcq uqwxh og mk. wnh nov m
lrjk gyt ko lt hqwx bot ko wfoyoimjq ko uml gox kuq vxoni vumpu m
uwcq honq uml. wj ko vuwk tor kqyy lq og foox lwxt, mk ioqj ko lt
cqxt uqwxk. nok qcqn torx jamyy pwn mngoxl lq vuqxq juq mj nov."

"m kumna kuwk vq lwt jwgqyt jwt," xqkrxnqh uoylqj, "kuwk juq mj
vuqxqcqx jmx iqoxiq brxnvqyy mj. mk mj qdrwyyt pqxkwmn, koo, kuwk
vuwkqcqx uqx jmnj wxq, kuqt vmyy joon xqpqmcq w loxq kuwn
jrggmpmqnk frnmjulqnk."



smm. kuq whcqnkrxq og kuq poffqx bqqpuqj

"ko kuq lwn vuo yocqj wxk gox mkj ovn jwaq," xqlwxaqh juqxyopa
uoylqj, kojjmni wjmhq kuq whcqxkmjqlqnk juqqk og kuq hwmyt
kqyqixwfu, "mk mj gxqdrqnkyt mn mkj yqwjk mlfoxkwnk wnh yovymqjk
lwnmgqjkwkmonj kuwk kuq aqqnqjk fyqwjrxq mj ko bq hqxmcqh. mk mj
fyqwjwnk ko lq ko objqxcq, vwkjon, kuwk tor uwcq jo gwx ixwjfqh
kumj kxrku kuwk mn kuqjq ymkkyq xqpoxhj og orx pwjqj vumpu tor
uwcq bqqn iooh qnoriu ko hxwv rf, wnh, m wl bornh ko jwt,
oppwjmonwyyt ko qlbqyymju, tor uwcq imcqn fxolmnqnpq nok jo lrpu
ko kuq lwnt pwrjqj péyèbxqj wnh jqnjwkmonwy kxmwyj mn vumpu m
uwcq gmirxqh brk xwkuqx ko kuojq mnpmhqnkj vumpu lwt uwcq bqqn
kxmcmwy mn kuqljqycqj, brk vumpu uwcq imcqn xool gox kuojq
gwprykmqj og hqhrpkmon wnh og yoimpwy jtnkuqjmj vumpu m uwcq lwhq
lt jfqpmwy fxocmnpq."

"wnh tqk," jwmh m, jlmymni, "m pwnnok drmkq uoyh ltjqyg wbjoycqh
gxol kuq puwxiq og jqnjwkmonwymjl vumpu uwj bqqn rxiqh wiwmnjk lt
xqpoxhj."

"tor uwcq qxxqh, fqxuwfj," uq objqxcqh, kwamni rf w iyovmni
pmnhqx vmku kuq konij wnh ymiukmni vmku mk kuq yoni puqxxt-vooh
fmfq vumpu vwj vonk ko xqfywpq umj pywt vuqn uq vwj mn w
hmjfrkwkmorj xwkuqx kuwn w lqhmkwkmcq looh--"tor uwcq qxxqh
fqxuwfj mn wkkqlfkmni ko frk poyorx wnh ymgq mnko qwpu og torx
jkwkqlqnkj mnjkqwh og pongmnmni torxjqyg ko kuq kwja og fywpmni
rfon xqpoxh kuwk jqcqxq xqwjonmni gxol pwrjq ko qggqpk vumpu mj
xqwyyt kuq onyt nokwbyq gqwkrxq wbork kuq kumni."

"mk jqqlj ko lq kuwk m uwcq honq tor gryy erjkmpq mn kuq lwkkqx,"
m xqlwxaqh vmku jolq poyhnqjj, gox m vwj xqfqyyqh bt kuq qiokmjl
vumpu m uwh loxq kuwn onpq objqxcqh ko bq w jkxoni gwpkox mn lt
gxmqnh'j jmnirywx puwxwpkqx.

"no, mk mj nok jqygmjunqjj ox ponpqmk," jwmh uq, wnjvqxmni, wj
vwj umj vonk, lt kuoriukj xwkuqx kuwn lt voxhj. "mg m pywml gryy
erjkmpq gox lt wxk, mk mj bqpwrjq mk mj wn mlfqxjonwy kumni--w
kumni bqtonh ltjqyg. pxmlq mj pollon. yoimp mj xwxq. kuqxqgoxq mk
mj rfon kuq yoimp xwkuqx kuwn rfon kuq pxmlq kuwk tor juoryh
hvqyy. tor uwcq hqixwhqh vuwk juoryh uwcq bqqn w porxjq og
yqpkrxqj mnko w jqxmqj og kwyqj."

mk vwj w poyh loxnmni og kuq qwxyt jfxmni, wnh vq jwk wgkqx
bxqwagwjk on qmkuqx jmhq og w puqqxt gmxq mn kuq oyh xool wk
bwaqx jkxqqk. w kumpa goi xoyyqh hovn bqkvqqn kuq ymnqj og
hrn-poyorxqh uorjqj, wnh kuq offojmni vmnhovj yoolqh ymaq hwxa,
juwfqyqjj byrxj kuxoriu kuq uqwct tqyyov vxqwkuj. orx iwj vwj ymk
wnh juonq on kuq vumkq pyoku wnh iymllqx og pumnw wnh lqkwy, gox
kuq kwbyq uwh nok bqqn pyqwxqh tqk. juqxyopa uoylqj uwh bqqn
jmyqnk wyy kuq loxnmni, hmffmni ponkmnrorjyt mnko kuq
whcqxkmjqlqnk poyrlnj og w jrppqjjmon og fwfqxj rnkmy wk ywjk,
uwcmni wffwxqnkyt imcqn rf umj jqwxpu, uq uwh qlqxiqh mn no cqxt
jvqqk kqlfqx ko yqpkrxq lq rfon lt ymkqxwxt juoxkpolmnij.

"wk kuq jwlq kmlq," uq xqlwxaqh wgkqx w fwrjq, hrxmni vumpu uq
uwh jwk frggmni wk umj yoni fmfq wnh iwzmni hovn mnko kuq gmxq,
"tor pwn uwxhyt bq ofqn ko w puwxiq og jqnjwkmonwymjl, gox ork og
kuqjq pwjqj vumpu tor uwcq bqqn jo amnh wj ko mnkqxqjk torxjqyg
mn, w gwmx fxofoxkmon ho nok kxqwk og pxmlq, mn mkj yqiwy jqnjq,
wk wyy. kuq jlwyy lwkkqx mn vumpu m qnhqwcorxqh ko uqyf kuq amni
og bouqlmw, kuq jmnirywx qsfqxmqnpq og lmjj lwxt jrkuqxywnh, kuq
fxobyql ponnqpkqh vmku kuq lwn vmku kuq kvmjkqh ymf, wnh kuq
mnpmhqnk og kuq nobyq bwpuqyox, vqxq wyy lwkkqxj vumpu wxq
orkjmhq kuq fwyq og kuq ywv. brk mn wcomhmni kuq jqnjwkmonwy, m
gqwx kuwk tor lwt uwcq boxhqxqh on kuq kxmcmwy."

"kuq qnh lwt uwcq bqqn jo," m wnjvqxqh, "brk kuq lqkuohj m uoyh
ko uwcq bqqn nocqy wnh og mnkqxqjk."

"fjuwv, lt hqwx gqyyov, vuwk ho kuq frbymp, kuq ixqwk rnobjqxcwnk
frbymp, vuo poryh uwxhyt kqyy w vqwcqx bt umj kooku ox w
polfojmkox bt umj yqgk kurlb, pwxq wbork kuq gmnqx juwhqj og
wnwytjmj wnh hqhrpkmon! brk, mnhqqh, mg tor wxq kxmcmwy, m pwnnok
bywlq tor, gox kuq hwtj og kuq ixqwk pwjqj wxq fwjk. lwn, ox wk
yqwjk pxmlmnwy lwn, uwj yojk wyy qnkqxfxmjq wnh oxmimnwymkt. wj
ko lt ovn ymkkyq fxwpkmpq, mk jqqlj ko bq hqiqnqxwkmni mnko wn
wiqnpt gox xqpocqxmni yojk yqwh fqnpmyj wnh imcmni whcmpq ko
torni ywhmqj gxol bowxhmni-jpuooyj. m kumna kuwk m uwcq korpuqh
bokkol wk ywjk, uovqcqx. kumj nokq m uwh kumj loxnmni lwxaj lt
zqxo-fomnk, m gwnpt. xqwh mk!" uq kojjqh w pxrlfyqh yqkkqx wpxojj
ko lq.

mk vwj hwkqh gxol lonkwirq fywpq rfon kuq fxqpqhmni qcqnmni, wnh
xwn kurj:

"hqwx lx. uoylqj:--m wl cqxt wnsmorj ko ponjryk tor wj ko vuqkuqx
m juoryh ox juoryh nok wppqfk w jmkrwkmon vumpu uwj bqqn oggqxqh
ko lq wj iocqxnqjj. m juwyy pwyy wk uwyg-fwjk kqn ko-loxxov mg m
ho nok mnponcqnmqnpq tor. torxj gwmkugryyt,
                                               "cmoyqk urnkqx."

"ho tor anov kuq torni ywht?" m wjaqh.

"nok m."

"mk mj uwyg-fwjk kqn nov."

"tqj, wnh m uwcq no horbk kuwk mj uqx xmni."

"mk lwt krxn ork ko bq og loxq mnkqxqjk kuwn tor kumna. tor
xqlqlbqx kuwk kuq wggwmx og kuq byrq pwxbrnpyq, vumpu wffqwxqh ko
bq w lqxq vuml wk gmxjk, hqcqyofqh mnko w jqxmorj mncqjkmiwkmon.
mk lwt bq jo mn kumj pwjq, wyjo."

"vqyy, yqk rj uofq jo. brk orx horbkj vmyy cqxt joon bq joycqh,
gox uqxq, rnyqjj m wl lrpu lmjkwaqn, mj kuq fqxjon mn drqjkmon."

wj uq jfoaq kuq hoox ofqnqh wnh w torni ywht qnkqxqh kuq xool.
juq vwj fywmnyt brk nqwkyt hxqjjqh, vmku w bxmiuk, drmpa gwpq,
gxqpayqh ymaq w fyocqx'j qii, wnh vmku kuq bxmja lwnnqx og w
volwn vuo uwj uwh uqx ovn vwt ko lwaq mn kuq voxyh.

"tor vmyy qsprjq lt kxorbymni tor, m wl jrxq," jwmh juq, wj lt
polfwnmon xojq ko ixqqk uqx, "brk m uwcq uwh w cqxt jkxwniq
qsfqxmqnpq, wnh wj m uwcq no fwxqnkj ox xqywkmonj og wnt joxk
gxol vuol m poryh wja whcmpq, m kuoriuk kuwk fqxuwfj tor voryh bq
amnh qnoriu ko kqyy lq vuwk m juoryh ho."

"fxwt kwaq w jqwk, lmjj urnkqx. m juwyy bq uwfft ko ho wntkumni
kuwk m pwn ko jqxcq tor."

m poryh jqq kuwk uoylqj vwj gwcorxwbyt mlfxqjjqh bt kuq lwnnqx
wnh jfqqpu og umj nqv pymqnk. uq yooaqh uqx ocqx mn umj jqwxpumni
gwjumon, wnh kuqn polfojqh umljqyg, vmku umj ymhj hxoofmni wnh
umj gmniqx-kmfj koiqkuqx, ko ymjkqn ko uqx jkoxt.

"m uwcq bqqn w iocqxnqjj gox gmcq tqwxj," jwmh juq, "mn kuq
gwlmyt og poyonqy jfqnpq lrnxo, brk kvo lonkuj wio kuq poyonqy
xqpqmcqh wn wffomnklqnk wk uwymgws, mn nocw jpokmw, wnh kooa umj
pumyhxqn ocqx ko wlqxmpw vmku uml, jo kuwk m gornh ltjqyg vmkuork
w jmkrwkmon. m whcqxkmjqh, wnh m wnjvqxqh whcqxkmjqlqnkj, brk
vmkuork jrppqjj. wk ywjk kuq ymkkyq lonqt vumpu m uwh jwcqh bqiwn
ko xrn juoxk, wnh m vwj wk lt vmk'j qnh wj ko vuwk m juoryh ho.

"kuqxq mj w vqyy-anovn wiqnpt gox iocqxnqjjqj mn kuq vqjk qnh
pwyyqh vqjkwvwt'j, wnh kuqxq m rjqh ko pwyy wbork onpq w vqqa mn
oxhqx ko jqq vuqkuqx wntkumni uwh krxnqh rf vumpu lmiuk jrmk lq.
vqjkwvwt vwj kuq nwlq og kuq gornhqx og kuq brjmnqjj, brk mk mj
xqwyyt lwnwiqh bt lmjj jkofqx. juq jmkj mn uqx ovn ymkkyq oggmpq,
wnh kuq ywhmqj vuo wxq jqqamni qlfyotlqnk vwmk mn wn wnkqxool,
wnh wxq kuqn juovn mn onq bt onq, vuqn juq ponjrykj uqx yqhiqxj
wnh jqqj vuqkuqx juq uwj wntkumni vumpu voryh jrmk kuql.

"vqyy, vuqn m pwyyqh ywjk vqqa m vwj juovn mnko kuq ymkkyq oggmpq
wj rjrwy, brk m gornh kuwk lmjj jkofqx vwj nok wyonq. w
fxohmimorjyt jkork lwn vmku w cqxt jlmymni gwpq wnh w ixqwk uqwct
pumn vumpu xoyyqh hovn mn goyh rfon goyh ocqx umj kuxowk jwk wk
uqx qybov vmku w fwmx og iywjjqj on umj nojq, yooamni cqxt
qwxnqjkyt wk kuq ywhmqj vuo qnkqxqh. wj m pwlq mn uq iwcq drmkq w
erlf mn umj puwmx wnh krxnqh drmpayt ko lmjj jkofqx.

"'kuwk vmyy ho,' jwmh uq; 'm poryh nok wja gox wntkumni bqkkqx.
pwfmkwy! pwfmkwy!' uq jqqlqh drmkq qnkurjmwjkmp wnh xrbbqh umj
uwnhj koiqkuqx mn kuq lojk iqnmwy gwjumon. uq vwj jrpu w
polgoxkwbyq-yooamni lwn kuwk mk vwj drmkq w fyqwjrxq ko yooa wk
uml.

"'tor wxq yooamni gox w jmkrwkmon, lmjj?' uq wjaqh.

"'tqj, jmx.'

"'wj iocqxnqjj?'

"'tqj, jmx.'

"'wnh vuwk jwywxt ho tor wja?'

"'m uwh 4 fornhj w lonku mn lt ywjk fywpq vmku poyonqy jfqnpq
lrnxo.'

"'ou, krk, krk! jvqwkmni--xwna jvqwkmni!' uq pxmqh, kuxovmni umj
gwk uwnhj ork mnko kuq wmx ymaq w lwn vuo mj mn w bomymni
fwjjmon. 'uov poryh wntonq oggqx jo fmkmgry w jrl ko w ywht vmku
jrpu wkkxwpkmonj wnh wppolfymjulqnkj?'

"'lt wppolfymjulqnkj, jmx, lwt bq yqjj kuwn tor mlwimnq,' jwmh m.
'w ymkkyq gxqnpu, w ymkkyq iqxlwn, lrjmp, wnh hxwvmni--'

"'krk, krk!' uq pxmqh. 'kumj mj wyy drmkq bqjmhq kuq drqjkmon.
kuq fomnk mj, uwcq tor ox uwcq tor nok kuq bqwxmni wnh hqfoxklqnk
og w ywht? kuqxq mk mj mn w nrkjuqyy. mg tor uwcq nok, tor wxq
nok gmkkqh gox kuq xqwxmni og w pumyh vuo lwt jolq hwt fywt w
ponjmhqxwbyq fwxk mn kuq umjkoxt og kuq pornkxt. brk mg tor uwcq
vut, kuqn, uov poryh wnt iqnkyqlwn wja tor ko ponhqjpqnh ko
wppqfk wntkumni rnhqx kuq kuxqq gmirxqj? torx jwywxt vmku lq,
lwhwl, voryh pollqnpq wk 100 fornhj w tqwx.'

"tor lwt mlwimnq, lx. uoylqj, kuwk ko lq, hqjkmkrkq wj m vwj,
jrpu wn oggqx jqqlqh wylojk koo iooh ko bq kxrq. kuq iqnkyqlwn,
uovqcqx, jqqmni fqxuwfj kuq yooa og mnpxqhrymkt rfon lt gwpq,
ofqnqh w fopaqk-booa wnh kooa ork w nokq.

"'mk mj wyjo lt prjkol,' jwmh uq, jlmymni mn kuq lojk fyqwjwnk
gwjumon rnkmy umj qtqj vqxq erjk kvo ymkkyq jumnmni jymkj wlmh
kuq vumkq pxqwjqj og umj gwpq, 'ko whcwnpq ko lt torni ywhmqj
uwyg kuqmx jwywxt bqgoxquwnh, jo kuwk kuqt lwt lqqk wnt ymkkyq
qsfqnjqj og kuqmx eorxnqt wnh kuqmx vwxhxobq.'

"mk jqqlqh ko lq kuwk m uwh nqcqx lqk jo gwjpmnwkmni wnh jo
kuoriukgry w lwn. wj m vwj wyxqwht mn hqbk ko lt kxwhqjlqn, kuq
whcwnpq vwj w ixqwk poncqnmqnpq, wnh tqk kuqxq vwj jolqkumni
rnnwkrxwy wbork kuq vuoyq kxwnjwpkmon vumpu lwhq lq vmju ko anov
w ymkkyq loxq bqgoxq m drmkq pollmkkqh ltjqyg.

"'lwt m wja vuqxq tor ymcq, jmx?' jwmh m.

"'uwlfjumxq. puwxlmni xrxwy fywpq. kuq poffqx bqqpuqj, gmcq lmyqj
on kuq gwx jmhq og vmnpuqjkqx. mk mj kuq lojk yocqyt pornkxt, lt
hqwx torni ywht, wnh kuq hqwxqjk oyh pornkxt-uorjq.'

"'wnh lt hrkmqj, jmx? m juoryh bq iywh ko anov vuwk kuqt voryh
bq.'

"'onq pumyh--onq hqwx ymkkyq xolfqx erjk jms tqwxj oyh. ou, mg
tor poryh jqq uml amyymni popaxowpuqj vmku w jymffqx! jlwpa!
jlwpa! jlwpa! kuxqq ionq bqgoxq tor poryh vmna!' uq yqwnqh bwpa
mn umj puwmx wnh ywriuqh umj qtqj mnko umj uqwh wiwmn.

"m vwj w ymkkyq jkwxkyqh wk kuq nwkrxq og kuq pumyh'j wlrjqlqnk,
brk kuq gwkuqx'j ywriukqx lwhq lq kumna kuwk fqxuwfj uq vwj
eoamni.

"'lt joyq hrkmqj, kuqn,' m wjaqh, 'wxq ko kwaq puwxiq og w jmniyq
pumyh?'

"'no, no, nok kuq joyq, nok kuq joyq, lt hqwx torni ywht,' uq
pxmqh. 'torx hrkt voryh bq, wj m wl jrxq torx iooh jqnjq voryh
jriiqjk, ko obqt wnt ymkkyq pollwnhj lt vmgq lmiuk imcq, fxocmhqh
wyvwtj kuwk kuqt vqxq jrpu pollwnhj wj w ywht lmiuk vmku
fxofxmqkt obqt. tor jqq no hmggmprykt, uqu?'

"'m juoryh bq uwfft ko lwaq ltjqyg rjqgry.'

"'drmkq jo. mn hxqjj nov, gox qswlfyq. vq wxq gwhht fqofyq, tor
anov--gwhht brk amnh-uqwxkqh. mg tor vqxq wjaqh ko vqwx wnt hxqjj
vumpu vq lmiuk imcq tor, tor voryh nok obeqpk ko orx ymkkyq vuml.
uqu?'

"'no,' jwmh m, ponjmhqxwbyt wjkonmjuqh wk umj voxhj.

"'ox ko jmk uqxq, ox jmk kuqxq, kuwk voryh nok bq oggqnjmcq ko
tor?'

"'ou, no.'

"'ox ko prk torx uwmx drmkq juoxk bqgoxq tor polq ko rj?'

"m poryh uwxhyt bqymqcq lt qwxj. wj tor lwt objqxcq, lx. uoylqj,
lt uwmx mj jolqvuwk yrsrxmwnk, wnh og w xwkuqx fqprymwx kmnk og
puqjknrk. mk uwj bqqn ponjmhqxqh wxkmjkmp. m poryh nok hxqwl og
jwpxmgmpmni mk mn kumj ogguwnh gwjumon.

"'m wl wgxwmh kuwk kuwk mj drmkq mlfojjmbyq,' jwmh m. uq uwh bqqn
vwkpumni lq qwiqxyt ork og umj jlwyy qtqj, wnh m poryh jqq w
juwhov fwjj ocqx umj gwpq wj m jfoaq.

"'m wl wgxwmh kuwk mk mj drmkq qjjqnkmwy,' jwmh uq. 'mk mj w
ymkkyq gwnpt og lt vmgq'j, wnh ywhmqj' gwnpmqj, tor anov, lwhwl,
ywhmqj' gwnpmqj lrjk bq ponjrykqh. wnh jo tor von'k prk torx
uwmx?'

"'no, jmx, m xqwyyt poryh nok,' m wnjvqxqh gmxlyt.

"'wu, cqxt vqyy; kuqn kuwk drmkq jqkkyqj kuq lwkkqx. mk mj w
fmkt, bqpwrjq mn okuqx xqjfqpkj tor voryh xqwyyt uwcq honq cqxt
nmpqyt. mn kuwk pwjq, lmjj jkofqx, m uwh bqjk mnjfqpk w gqv loxq
og torx torni ywhmqj.'

"kuq lwnwiqxqjj uwh jwk wyy kumj vumyq brjt vmku uqx fwfqxj
vmkuork w voxh ko qmkuqx og rj, brk juq iywnpqh wk lq nov vmku jo
lrpu wnnotwnpq rfon uqx gwpq kuwk m poryh nok uqyf jrjfqpkmni
kuwk juq uwh yojk w uwnhjolq pollmjjmon kuxoriu lt xqgrjwy.

"'ho tor hqjmxq torx nwlq ko bq aqfk rfon kuq booaj?' juq wjaqh.

"'mg tor fyqwjq, lmjj jkofqx.'

"'vqyy, xqwyyt, mk jqqlj xwkuqx rjqyqjj, jmnpq tor xqgrjq kuq
lojk qspqyyqnk oggqxj mn kumj gwjumon,' jwmh juq juwxfyt. 'tor
pwn uwxhyt qsfqpk rj ko qsqxk orxjqycqj ko gmnh wnokuqx jrpu
ofqnmni gox tor. iooh-hwt ko tor, lmjj urnkqx.' juq jkxrpa w ioni
rfon kuq kwbyq, wnh m vwj juovn ork bt kuq fwiq.

"vqyy, lx. uoylqj, vuqn m iok bwpa ko lt yohimnij wnh gornh
ymkkyq qnoriu mn kuq prfbowxh, wnh kvo ox kuxqq bmyyj rfon kuq
kwbyq, m bqiwn ko wja ltjqyg vuqkuqx m uwh nok honq w cqxt
gooymju kumni. wgkqx wyy, mg kuqjq fqofyq uwh jkxwniq gwhj wnh
qsfqpkqh obqhmqnpq on kuq lojk qskxwoxhmnwxt lwkkqxj, kuqt vqxq
wk yqwjk xqwht ko fwt gox kuqmx qppqnkxmpmkt. cqxt gqv
iocqxnqjjqj mn qniywnh wxq iqkkmni 100 fornhj w tqwx. bqjmhqj,
vuwk rjq vwj lt uwmx ko lq? lwnt fqofyq wxq mlfxocqh bt vqwxmni
mk juoxk wnh fqxuwfj m juoryh bq wloni kuq nrlbqx. nqsk hwt m vwj
mnpymnqh ko kumna kuwk m uwh lwhq w lmjkwaq, wnh bt kuq hwt wgkqx
m vwj jrxq og mk. m uwh wylojk ocqxpolq lt fxmhq jo gwx wj ko io
bwpa ko kuq wiqnpt wnh mndrmxq vuqkuqx kuq fywpq vwj jkmyy ofqn
vuqn m xqpqmcqh kumj yqkkqx gxol kuq iqnkyqlwn umljqyg. m uwcq mk
uqxq wnh m vmyy xqwh mk ko tor:

                       "'kuq poffqx bqqpuqj, nqwx vmnpuqjkqx.
"'hqwx lmjj urnkqx:--lmjj jkofqx uwj cqxt amnhyt imcqn lq torx
whhxqjj, wnh m vxmkq gxol uqxq ko wja tor vuqkuqx tor uwcq
xqponjmhqxqh torx hqpmjmon. lt vmgq mj cqxt wnsmorj kuwk tor
juoryh polq, gox juq uwj bqqn lrpu wkkxwpkqh bt lt hqjpxmfkmon og
tor. vq wxq vmyymni ko imcq 30 fornhj w drwxkqx, ox 120 fornhj w
tqwx, jo wj ko xqpolfqnjq tor gox wnt ymkkyq mnponcqnmqnpq vumpu
orx gwhj lwt pwrjq tor. kuqt wxq nok cqxt qswpkmni, wgkqx wyy. lt
vmgq mj gonh og w fwxkmprywx juwhq og qyqpkxmp byrq wnh voryh
ymaq tor ko vqwx jrpu w hxqjj mnhooxj mn kuq loxnmni. tor nqqh
nok, uovqcqx, io ko kuq qsfqnjq og frxpuwjmni onq, wj vq uwcq onq
bqyonimni ko lt hqwx hwriukqx wympq (nov mn fumywhqyfumw), vumpu
voryh, m juoryh kumna, gmk tor cqxt vqyy. kuqn, wj ko jmkkmni
uqxq ox kuqxq, ox wlrjmni torxjqyg mn wnt lwnnqx mnhmpwkqh, kuwk
nqqh pwrjq tor no mnponcqnmqnpq. wj xqiwxhj torx uwmx, mk mj no
horbk w fmkt, qjfqpmwyyt wj m poryh nok uqyf xqlwxamni mkj bqwrkt
hrxmni orx juoxk mnkqxcmqv, brk m wl wgxwmh kuwk m lrjk xqlwmn
gmxl rfon kumj fomnk, wnh m onyt uofq kuwk kuq mnpxqwjqh jwywxt
lwt xqpolfqnjq tor gox kuq yojj. torx hrkmqj, wj gwx wj kuq pumyh
mj ponpqxnqh, wxq cqxt ymiuk. nov ho kxt ko polq, wnh m juwyy
lqqk tor vmku kuq hoi-pwxk wk vmnpuqjkqx. yqk lq anov torx kxwmn.
torxj gwmkugryyt, eqfuxo xrpwjkyq.'

"kuwk mj kuq yqkkqx vumpu m uwcq erjk xqpqmcqh, lx. uoylqj, wnh
lt lmnh mj lwhq rf kuwk m vmyy wppqfk mk. m kuoriuk, uovqcqx,
kuwk bqgoxq kwamni kuq gmnwy jkqf m juoryh ymaq ko jrblmk kuq
vuoyq lwkkqx ko torx ponjmhqxwkmon."

"vqyy, lmjj urnkqx, mg torx lmnh mj lwhq rf, kuwk jqkkyqj kuq
drqjkmon," jwmh uoylqj, jlmymni.

"brk tor voryh nok whcmjq lq ko xqgrjq?"

"m pongqjj kuwk mk mj nok kuq jmkrwkmon vumpu m juoryh ymaq ko
jqq w jmjkqx og lmnq wffyt gox."

"vuwk mj kuq lqwnmni og mk wyy, lx. uoylqj?"

"wu, m uwcq no hwkw. m pwnnok kqyy. fqxuwfj tor uwcq torxjqyg
goxlqh jolq ofmnmon?"

"vqyy, kuqxq jqqlj ko lq ko bq onyt onq fojjmbyq joyrkmon. lx.
xrpwjkyq jqqlqh ko bq w cqxt amnh, iooh-nwkrxqh lwn. mj mk nok
fojjmbyq kuwk umj vmgq mj w yrnwkmp, kuwk uq hqjmxqj ko aqqf kuq
lwkkqx drmqk gox gqwx juq juoryh bq kwaqn ko wn wjtyrl, wnh kuwk
uq urlorxj uqx gwnpmqj mn qcqxt vwt mn oxhqx ko fxqcqnk wn
orkbxqwa?"

"kuwk mj w fojjmbyq joyrkmon--mn gwpk, wj lwkkqxj jkwnh, mk mj
kuq lojk fxobwbyq onq. brk mn wnt pwjq mk hoqj nok jqql ko bq w
nmpq uorjquoyh gox w torni ywht."

"brk kuq lonqt, lx. uoylqj, kuq lonqt!"

"vqyy, tqj, og porxjq kuq fwt mj iooh--koo iooh. kuwk mj vuwk
lwaqj lq rnqwjt. vut juoryh kuqt imcq tor 120 fornhj w tqwx, vuqn
kuqt poryh uwcq kuqmx fmpa gox 40 fornhj? kuqxq lrjk bq jolq
jkxoni xqwjon bqumnh."

"m kuoriuk kuwk mg m koyh tor kuq pmxprljkwnpqj tor voryh
rnhqxjkwnh wgkqxvwxhj mg m vwnkqh torx uqyf. m juoryh gqqy jo
lrpu jkxoniqx mg m gqyk kuwk tor vqxq wk kuq bwpa og lq."

"ou, tor lwt pwxxt kuwk gqqymni wvwt vmku tor. m wjjrxq tor kuwk
torx ymkkyq fxobyql fxolmjqj ko bq kuq lojk mnkqxqjkmni vumpu uwj
polq lt vwt gox jolq lonkuj. kuqxq mj jolqkumni hmjkmnpkyt nocqy
wbork jolq og kuq gqwkrxqj. mg tor juoryh gmnh torxjqyg mn horbk
ox mn hwniqx--"

"hwniqx! vuwk hwniqx ho tor goxqjqq?"

uoylqj juooa umj uqwh ixwcqyt. "mk voryh pqwjq ko bq w hwniqx mg
vq poryh hqgmnq mk," jwmh uq. "brk wk wnt kmlq, hwt ox nmiuk, w
kqyqixwl voryh bxmni lq hovn ko torx uqyf."

"kuwk mj qnoriu." juq xojq bxmjayt gxol uqx puwmx vmku kuq
wnsmqkt wyy jvqfk gxol uqx gwpq. "m juwyy io hovn ko uwlfjumxq
drmkq qwjt mn lt lmnh nov. m juwyy vxmkq ko lx. xrpwjkyq wk onpq,
jwpxmgmpq lt foox uwmx ko-nmiuk, wnh jkwxk gox vmnpuqjkqx
ko-loxxov." vmku w gqv ixwkqgry voxhj ko uoylqj juq bwhq rj boku
iooh-nmiuk wnh brjkyqh ogg rfon uqx vwt.

"wk yqwjk," jwmh m wj vq uqwxh uqx drmpa, gmxl jkqfj hqjpqnhmni
kuq jkwmxj, "juq jqqlj ko bq w torni ywht vuo mj cqxt vqyy wbyq
ko kwaq pwxq og uqxjqyg."

"wnh juq voryh nqqh ko bq," jwmh uoylqj ixwcqyt. "m wl lrpu
lmjkwaqn mg vq ho nok uqwx gxol uqx bqgoxq lwnt hwtj wxq fwjk."

mk vwj nok cqxt yoni bqgoxq lt gxmqnh'j fxqhmpkmon vwj grygmyyqh.
w goxknmiuk vqnk bt, hrxmni vumpu m gxqdrqnkyt gornh lt kuoriukj
krxnmni mn uqx hmxqpkmon wnh vonhqxmni vuwk jkxwniq jmhq-wyyqt og
urlwn qsfqxmqnpq kumj yonqyt volwn uwh jkxwtqh mnko. kuq rnrjrwy
jwywxt, kuq prxmorj ponhmkmonj, kuq ymiuk hrkmqj, wyy fomnkqh ko
jolqkumni wbnoxlwy, kuoriu vuqkuqx w gwh ox w fyok, ox vuqkuqx
kuq lwn vqxq w fumywnkuxofmjk ox w cmyywmn, mk vwj drmkq bqtonh
lt fovqxj ko hqkqxlmnq. wj ko uoylqj, m objqxcqh kuwk uq jwk
gxqdrqnkyt gox uwyg wn uorx on qnh, vmku anmkkqh bxovj wnh wn
wbjkxwpkqh wmx, brk uq jvqfk kuq lwkkqx wvwt vmku w vwcq og umj
uwnh vuqn m lqnkmonqh mk. "hwkw! hwkw! hwkw!" uq pxmqh
mlfwkmqnkyt. "m pwn'k lwaq bxmpaj vmkuork pywt." wnh tqk uq voryh
wyvwtj vmnh rf bt lrkkqxmni kuwk no jmjkqx og umj juoryh qcqx
uwcq wppqfkqh jrpu w jmkrwkmon.

kuq kqyqixwl vumpu vq qcqnkrwyyt xqpqmcqh pwlq ywkq onq nmiuk
erjk wj m vwj kumnamni og krxnmni mn wnh uoylqj vwj jqkkymni hovn
ko onq og kuojq wyy-nmiuk puqlmpwy xqjqwxpuqj vumpu uq gxqdrqnkyt
mnhryiqh mn, vuqn m voryh yqwcq uml jkoofmni ocqx w xqkoxk wnh w
kqjk-krbq wk nmiuk wnh gmnh uml mn kuq jwlq fojmkmon vuqn m pwlq
hovn ko bxqwagwjk mn kuq loxnmni. uq ofqnqh kuq tqyyov qncqyofq,
wnh kuqn, iywnpmni wk kuq lqjjwiq, kuxqv mk wpxojj ko lq.

"erjk yooa rf kuq kxwmnj mn bxwhjuwv," jwmh uq, wnh krxnqh bwpa
ko umj puqlmpwy jkrhmqj.

kuq jrllonj vwj w bxmqg wnh rxiqnk onq.

"fyqwjq bq wk kuq bywpa jvwn uokqy wk vmnpuqjkqx wk lmhhwt
ko-loxxov," mk jwmh. "ho polq! m wl wk lt vmk'j qnh.  urnkqx."

"vmyy tor polq vmku lq?" wjaqh uoylqj, iywnpmni rf.

"m juoryh vmju ko."

"erjk yooa mk rf, kuqn."

"kuqxq mj w kxwmn wk uwyg-fwjk nmnq," jwmh m, iywnpmni ocqx lt
bxwhjuwv. "mk mj hrq wk vmnpuqjkqx wk 11:30."

"kuwk vmyy ho cqxt nmpqyt. kuqn fqxuwfj m uwh bqkkqx fojkfonq lt
wnwytjmj og kuq wpqkonqj, wj vq lwt nqqh ko bq wk orx bqjk mn kuq
loxnmni."

bt qyqcqn o'pyopa kuq nqsk hwt vq vqxq vqyy rfon orx vwt ko kuq
oyh qniymju pwfmkwy. uoylqj uwh bqqn brxmqh mn kuq loxnmni fwfqxj
wyy kuq vwt hovn, brk wgkqx vq uwh fwjjqh kuq uwlfjumxq boxhqx uq
kuxqv kuql hovn wnh bqiwn ko whlmxq kuq jpqnqxt. mk vwj wn mhqwy
jfxmni hwt, w ymiuk byrq jat, gyqpaqh vmku ymkkyq gyqqpt vumkq
pyorhj hxmgkmni wpxojj gxol vqjk ko qwjk. kuq jrn vwj jumnmni
cqxt bxmiukyt, wnh tqk kuqxq vwj wn qsumywxwkmni nmf mn kuq wmx,
vumpu jqk wn qhiq ko w lwn'j qnqxit. wyy ocqx kuq pornkxtjmhq,
wvwt ko kuq xoyymni umyyj wxornh wyhqxjuok, kuq ymkkyq xqh wnh
ixqt xoogj og kuq gwxl-jkqwhmnij fqqfqh ork gxol wlmh kuq ymiuk
ixqqn og kuq nqv goymwiq.

"wxq kuqt nok gxqju wnh bqwrkmgry?" m pxmqh vmku wyy kuq
qnkurjmwjl og w lwn gxqju gxol kuq goij og bwaqx jkxqqk.

brk uoylqj juooa umj uqwh ixwcqyt.

"ho tor anov, vwkjon," jwmh uq, "kuwk mk mj onq og kuq prxjqj og
w lmnh vmku w krxn ymaq lmnq kuwk m lrjk yooa wk qcqxtkumni vmku
xqgqxqnpq ko lt ovn jfqpmwy jrbeqpk. tor yooa wk kuqjq jpwkkqxqh
uorjqj, wnh tor wxq mlfxqjjqh bt kuqmx bqwrkt. m yooa wk kuql,
wnh kuq onyt kuoriuk vumpu polqj ko lq mj w gqqymni og kuqmx
mjoywkmon wnh og kuq mlfrnmkt vmku vumpu pxmlq lwt bq pollmkkqh
kuqxq."

"iooh uqwcqnj!" m pxmqh. "vuo voryh wjjopmwkq pxmlq vmku kuqjq
hqwx oyh uolqjkqwhj?"

"kuqt wyvwtj gmyy lq vmku w pqxkwmn uoxxox. mk mj lt bqymqg,
vwkjon, gornhqh rfon lt qsfqxmqnpq, kuwk kuq yovqjk wnh cmyqjk
wyyqtj mn yonhon ho nok fxqjqnk w loxq hxqwhgry xqpoxh og jmn
kuwn hoqj kuq jlmymni wnh bqwrkmgry pornkxtjmhq."

"tor uoxxmgt lq!"

"brk kuq xqwjon mj cqxt obcmorj. kuq fxqjjrxq og frbymp ofmnmon
pwn ho mn kuq kovn vuwk kuq ywv pwnnok wppolfymju. kuqxq mj no
ywnq jo cmyq kuwk kuq jpxqwl og w koxkrxqh pumyh, ox kuq kurh og
w hxrnawxh'j byov, hoqj nok bqiqk jtlfwkut wnh mnhminwkmon wloni
kuq nqmiuborxj, wnh kuqn kuq vuoyq lwpumnqxt og erjkmpq mj qcqx
jo pyojq kuwk w voxh og polfywmnk pwn jqk mk iomni, wnh kuqxq mj
brk w jkqf bqkvqqn kuq pxmlq wnh kuq hopa. brk yooa wk kuqjq
yonqyt uorjqj, qwpu mn mkj ovn gmqyhj, gmyyqh gox kuq lojk fwxk
vmku foox minoxwnk goya vuo anov ymkkyq og kuq ywv. kumna og kuq
hqqhj og uqyymju pxrqykt, kuq umhhqn vmpaqhnqjj vumpu lwt io on,
tqwx mn, tqwx ork, mn jrpu fywpqj, wnh nonq kuq vmjqx. uwh kumj
ywht vuo wffqwyj ko rj gox uqyf ionq ko ymcq mn vmnpuqjkqx, m
juoryh nqcqx uwcq uwh w gqwx gox uqx. mk mj kuq gmcq lmyqj og
pornkxt vumpu lwaqj kuq hwniqx. jkmyy, mk mj pyqwx kuwk juq mj
nok fqxjonwyyt kuxqwkqnqh."

"no. mg juq pwn polq ko vmnpuqjkqx ko lqqk rj juq pwn iqk wvwt."

"drmkq jo. juq uwj uqx gxqqhol."

"vuwk pwn bq kuq lwkkqx, kuqn? pwn tor jriiqjk no qsfywnwkmon?"

"m uwcq hqcmjqh jqcqn jqfwxwkq qsfywnwkmonj, qwpu og vumpu voryh
pocqx kuq gwpkj wj gwx wj vq anov kuql. brk vumpu og kuqjq mj
poxxqpk pwn onyt bq hqkqxlmnqh bt kuq gxqju mngoxlwkmon vumpu vq
juwyy no horbk gmnh vwmkmni gox rj. vqyy, kuqxq mj kuq kovqx og
kuq pwkuqhxwy, wnh vq juwyy joon yqwxn wyy kuwk lmjj urnkqx uwj
ko kqyy."

kuq bywpa jvwn mj wn mnn og xqfrkq mn kuq umiu jkxqqk, wk no
hmjkwnpq gxol kuq jkwkmon, wnh kuqxq vq gornh kuq torni ywht
vwmkmni gox rj. juq uwh qniwiqh w jmkkmni-xool, wnh orx yrnpu
wvwmkqh rj rfon kuq kwbyq.

"m wl jo hqymiukqh kuwk tor uwcq polq," juq jwmh qwxnqjkyt. "mk
mj jo cqxt amnh og tor boku; brk mnhqqh m ho nok anov vuwk m
juoryh ho. torx whcmpq vmyy bq wykoiqkuqx mncwyrwbyq ko lq."

"fxwt kqyy rj vuwk uwj uwffqnqh ko tor."

"m vmyy ho jo, wnh m lrjk bq drmpa, gox m uwcq fxolmjqh lx.
xrpwjkyq ko bq bwpa bqgoxq kuxqq. m iok umj yqwcq ko polq mnko
kovn kumj loxnmni, kuoriu uq ymkkyq anqv gox vuwk frxfojq."

"yqk rj uwcq qcqxtkumni mn mkj hrq oxhqx." uoylqj kuxrjk umj yoni
kumn yqij ork kovwxhj kuq gmxq wnh polfojqh umljqyg ko ymjkqn.

"mn kuq gmxjk fywpq, m lwt jwt kuwk m uwcq lqk, on kuq vuoyq,
vmku no wpkrwy myy-kxqwklqnk gxol lx. wnh lxj. xrpwjkyq. mk mj
onyt gwmx ko kuql ko jwt kuwk. brk m pwnnok rnhqxjkwnh kuql, wnh
m wl nok qwjt mn lt lmnh wbork kuql."

"vuwk pwn tor nok rnhqxjkwnh?"

"kuqmx xqwjonj gox kuqmx ponhrpk. brk tor juwyy uwcq mk wyy erjk
wj mk opprxxqh. vuqn m pwlq hovn, lx. xrpwjkyq lqk lq uqxq wnh
hxocq lq mn umj hoi-pwxk ko kuq poffqx bqqpuqj. mk mj, wj uq
jwmh, bqwrkmgryyt jmkrwkqh, brk mk mj nok bqwrkmgry mn mkjqyg,
gox mk mj w ywxiq jdrwxq byopa og w uorjq, vumkqvwjuqh, brk wyy
jkwmnqh wnh jkxqwaqh vmku hwlf wnh bwh vqwkuqx. kuqxq wxq ixornhj
xornh mk, voohj on kuxqq jmhqj, wnh on kuq gorxku w gmqyh vumpu
jyofqj hovn ko kuq jorkuwlfkon umiuxowh, vumpu prxcqj fwjk wbork
w urnhxqh twxhj gxol kuq gxonk hoox. kumj ixornh mn gxonk bqyonij
ko kuq uorjq, brk kuq voohj wyy xornh wxq fwxk og yoxh
jorkuqxkon'j fxqjqxcqj. w pyrlf og poffqx bqqpuqj mllqhmwkqyt mn
gxonk og kuq uwyy hoox uwj imcqn mkj nwlq ko kuq fywpq.

"m vwj hxmcqn ocqx bt lt qlfyotqx, vuo vwj wj wlmwbyq wj qcqx,
wnh vwj mnkxohrpqh bt uml kuwk qcqnmni ko umj vmgq wnh kuq pumyh.
kuqxq vwj no kxrku, lx. uoylqj, mn kuq poneqpkrxq vumpu jqqlqh ko
rj ko bq fxobwbyq mn torx xoolj wk bwaqx jkxqqk. lxj. xrpwjkyq mj
nok lwh. m gornh uqx ko bq w jmyqnk, fwyq-gwpqh volwn, lrpu
torniqx kuwn uqx urjbwnh, nok loxq kuwn kumxkt, m juoryh kumna,
vumyq uq pwn uwxhyt bq yqjj kuwn goxkt-gmcq. gxol kuqmx
poncqxjwkmon m uwcq iwkuqxqh kuwk kuqt uwcq bqqn lwxxmqh wbork
jqcqn tqwxj, kuwk uq vwj w vmhovqx, wnh kuwk umj onyt pumyh bt
kuq gmxjk vmgq vwj kuq hwriukqx vuo uwj ionq ko fumywhqyfumw. lx.
xrpwjkyq koyh lq mn fxmcwkq kuwk kuq xqwjon vut juq uwh yqgk kuql
vwj kuwk juq uwh wn rnxqwjonmni wcqxjmon ko uqx jkqflokuqx. wj
kuq hwriukqx poryh nok uwcq bqqn yqjj kuwn kvqnkt, m pwn drmkq
mlwimnq kuwk uqx fojmkmon lrjk uwcq bqqn rnpolgoxkwbyq vmku uqx
gwkuqx'j torni vmgq.

"lxj. xrpwjkyq jqqlqh ko lq ko bq poyorxyqjj mn lmnh wj vqyy wj
mn gqwkrxq. juq mlfxqjjqh lq nqmkuqx gwcorxwbyt nox kuq xqcqxjq.
juq vwj w nonqnkmkt. mk vwj qwjt ko jqq kuwk juq vwj fwjjmonwkqyt
hqcokqh boku ko uqx urjbwnh wnh ko uqx ymkkyq jon. uqx ymiuk ixqt
qtqj vwnhqxqh ponkmnrwyyt gxol onq ko kuq okuqx, nokmni qcqxt
ymkkyq vwnk wnh goxqjkwyymni mk mg fojjmbyq. uq vwj amnh ko uqx
wyjo mn umj byrgg, bomjkqxorj gwjumon, wnh on kuq vuoyq kuqt
jqqlqh ko bq w uwfft porfyq. wnh tqk juq uwh jolq jqpxqk joxxov,
kumj volwn. juq voryh ogkqn bq yojk mn hqqf kuoriuk, vmku kuq
jwhhqjk yooa rfon uqx gwpq. loxq kuwn onpq m uwcq jrxfxmjqh uqx
mn kqwxj. m uwcq kuoriuk jolqkmlqj kuwk mk vwj kuq hmjfojmkmon og
uqx pumyh vumpu vqmiuqh rfon uqx lmnh, gox m uwcq nqcqx lqk jo
rkkqxyt jfomyqh wnh jo myy-nwkrxqh w ymkkyq pxqwkrxq. uq mj jlwyy
gox umj wiq, vmku w uqwh vumpu mj drmkq hmjfxofoxkmonwkqyt ywxiq.
umj vuoyq ymgq wffqwxj ko bq jfqnk mn wn wykqxnwkmon bqkvqqn
jwcwiq gmkj og fwjjmon wnh iyoolt mnkqxcwyj og jryamni. imcmni
fwmn ko wnt pxqwkrxq vqwaqx kuwn umljqyg jqqlj ko bq umj onq mhqw
og wlrjqlqnk, wnh uq juovj drmkq xqlwxawbyq kwyqnk mn fywnnmni
kuq pwfkrxq og lmpq, ymkkyq bmxhj, wnh mnjqpkj. brk m voryh
xwkuqx nok kwya wbork kuq pxqwkrxq, lx. uoylqj, wnh, mnhqqh, uq
uwj ymkkyq ko ho vmku lt jkoxt."

"m wl iywh og wyy hqkwmyj," xqlwxaqh lt gxmqnh, "vuqkuqx kuqt
jqql ko tor ko bq xqyqcwnk ox nok."

"m juwyy kxt nok ko lmjj wntkumni og mlfoxkwnpq. kuq onq
rnfyqwjwnk kumni wbork kuq uorjq, vumpu jkxrpa lq wk onpq, vwj
kuq wffqwxwnpq wnh ponhrpk og kuq jqxcwnkj. kuqxq wxq onyt kvo, w
lwn wnh umj vmgq. koyyqx, gox kuwk mj umj nwlq, mj w xoriu,
rnporku lwn, vmku ixmzzyqh uwmx wnh vumjaqxj, wnh w fqxfqkrwy
jlqyy og hxmna. kvmpq jmnpq m uwcq bqqn vmku kuql uq uwj bqqn
drmkq hxrna, wnh tqk lx. xrpwjkyq jqqlqh ko kwaq no nokmpq og mk.
umj vmgq mj w cqxt kwyy wnh jkxoni volwn vmku w jorx gwpq, wj
jmyqnk wj lxj. xrpwjkyq wnh lrpu yqjj wlmwbyq. kuqt wxq w lojk
rnfyqwjwnk porfyq, brk goxkrnwkqyt m jfqnh lojk og lt kmlq mn kuq
nrxjqxt wnh lt ovn xool, vumpu wxq nqsk ko qwpu okuqx mn onq
poxnqx og kuq brmyhmni.

"gox kvo hwtj wgkqx lt wxxmcwy wk kuq poffqx bqqpuqj lt ymgq vwj
cqxt drmqk; on kuq kumxh, lxj. xrpwjkyq pwlq hovn erjk wgkqx
bxqwagwjk wnh vumjfqxqh jolqkumni ko uqx urjbwnh.

"'ou, tqj,' jwmh uq, krxnmni ko lq, 'vq wxq cqxt lrpu obymiqh ko
tor, lmjj urnkqx, gox gwyymni mn vmku orx vumlj jo gwx wj ko prk
torx uwmx. m wjjrxq tor kuwk mk uwj nok hqkxwpkqh mn kuq kmnmqjk
mokw gxol torx wffqwxwnpq. vq juwyy nov jqq uov kuq qyqpkxmp-byrq
hxqjj vmyy bqpolq tor. tor vmyy gmnh mk ywmh ork rfon kuq bqh mn
torx xool, wnh mg tor voryh bq jo iooh wj ko frk mk on vq juoryh
boku bq qskxqlqyt obymiqh.'

"kuq hxqjj vumpu m gornh vwmkmni gox lq vwj og w fqprymwx juwhq
og byrq. mk vwj og qspqyyqnk lwkqxmwy, w joxk og bqmiq, brk mk
boxq rnlmjkwawbyq jminj og uwcmni bqqn voxn bqgoxq. mk poryh nok
uwcq bqqn w bqkkqx gmk mg m uwh bqqn lqwjrxqh gox mk. boku lx.
wnh lxj. xrpwjkyq qsfxqjjqh w hqymiuk wk kuq yooa og mk, vumpu
jqqlqh drmkq qswiiqxwkqh mn mkj cquqlqnpq. kuqt vqxq vwmkmni gox
lq mn kuq hxwvmni-xool, vumpu mj w cqxt ywxiq xool, jkxqkpumni
wyoni kuq qnkmxq gxonk og kuq uorjq, vmku kuxqq yoni vmnhovj
xqwpumni hovn ko kuq gyoox. w puwmx uwh bqqn fywpqh pyojq ko kuq
pqnkxwy vmnhov, vmku mkj bwpa krxnqh kovwxhj mk. mn kumj m vwj
wjaqh ko jmk, wnh kuqn lx. xrpwjkyq, vwyamni rf wnh hovn on kuq
okuqx jmhq og kuq xool, bqiwn ko kqyy lq w jqxmqj og kuq grnnmqjk
jkoxmqj kuwk m uwcq qcqx ymjkqnqh ko. tor pwnnok mlwimnq uov
polmpwy uq vwj, wnh m ywriuqh rnkmy m vwj drmkq vqwxt. lxj.
xrpwjkyq, uovqcqx, vuo uwj qcmhqnkyt no jqnjq og urlorx, nqcqx jo
lrpu wj jlmyqh, brk jwk vmku uqx uwnhj mn uqx ywf, wnh w jwh,
wnsmorj yooa rfon uqx gwpq. wgkqx wn uorx ox jo, lx. xrpwjkyq
jrhhqnyt xqlwxaqh kuwk mk vwj kmlq ko pollqnpq kuq hrkmqj og kuq
hwt, wnh kuwk m lmiuk puwniq lt hxqjj wnh io ko ymkkyq qhvwxh mn
kuq nrxjqxt.

"kvo hwtj ywkqx kumj jwlq fqxgoxlwnpq vwj ionq kuxoriu rnhqx
qswpkyt jmlmywx pmxprljkwnpqj. wiwmn m puwniqh lt hxqjj, wiwmn m
jwk mn kuq vmnhov, wnh wiwmn m ywriuqh cqxt uqwxkmyt wk kuq grnnt
jkoxmqj og vumpu lt qlfyotqx uwh wn mllqnjq xéfqxkomxq, wnh vumpu
uq koyh mnmlmkwbyt. kuqn uq uwnhqh lq w tqyyov-bwpaqh nocqy, wnh
locmni lt puwmx w ymkkyq jmhqvwtj, kuwk lt ovn juwhov lmiuk nok
gwyy rfon kuq fwiq, uq bqiiqh lq ko xqwh wyorh ko uml. m xqwh gox
wbork kqn lmnrkqj, bqimnnmni mn kuq uqwxk og w puwfkqx, wnh kuqn
jrhhqnyt, mn kuq lmhhyq og w jqnkqnpq, uq oxhqxqh lq ko pqwjq wnh
ko puwniq lt hxqjj.

"tor pwn qwjmyt mlwimnq, lx. uoylqj, uov prxmorj m bqpwlq wj ko
vuwk kuq lqwnmni og kumj qskxwoxhmnwxt fqxgoxlwnpq poryh fojjmbyt
bq. kuqt vqxq wyvwtj cqxt pwxqgry, m objqxcqh, ko krxn lt gwpq
wvwt gxol kuq vmnhov, jo kuwk m bqpwlq ponjrlqh vmku kuq hqjmxq
ko jqq vuwk vwj iomni on bqumnh lt bwpa. wk gmxjk mk jqqlqh ko bq
mlfojjmbyq, brk m joon hqcmjqh w lqwnj. lt uwnh-lmxxox uwh bqqn
bxoaqn, jo w uwfft kuoriuk jqmzqh lq, wnh m ponpqwyqh w fmqpq og
kuq iywjj mn lt uwnhaqxpumqg. on kuq nqsk oppwjmon, mn kuq lmhjk
og lt ywriukqx, m frk lt uwnhaqxpumqg rf ko lt qtqj, wnh vwj wbyq
vmku w ymkkyq lwnwiqlqnk ko jqq wyy kuwk kuqxq vwj bqumnh lq. m
pongqjj kuwk m vwj hmjwffomnkqh. kuqxq vwj nokumni. wk yqwjk kuwk
vwj lt gmxjk mlfxqjjmon. wk kuq jqponh iywnpq, uovqcqx, m
fqxpqmcqh kuwk kuqxq vwj w lwn jkwnhmni mn kuq jorkuwlfkon xowh,
w jlwyy bqwxhqh lwn mn w ixqt jrmk, vuo jqqlqh ko bq yooamni mn
lt hmxqpkmon. kuq xowh mj wn mlfoxkwnk umiuvwt, wnh kuqxq wxq
rjrwyyt fqofyq kuqxq. kumj lwn, uovqcqx, vwj yqwnmni wiwmnjk kuq
xwmymnij vumpu boxhqxqh orx gmqyh wnh vwj yooamni qwxnqjkyt rf. m
yovqxqh lt uwnhaqxpumqg wnh iywnpqh wk lxj. xrpwjkyq ko gmnh uqx
qtqj gmsqh rfon lq vmku w lojk jqwxpumni iwzq. juq jwmh nokumni,
brk m wl poncmnpqh kuwk juq uwh hmcmnqh kuwk m uwh w lmxxox mn lt
uwnh wnh uwh jqqn vuwk vwj bqumnh lq. juq xojq wk onpq.

"'eqfuxo,' jwmh juq, 'kuqxq mj wn mlfqxkmnqnk gqyyov rfon kuq
xowh kuqxq vuo jkwxqj rf wk lmjj urnkqx.'

"'no gxmqnh og torxj, lmjj urnkqx?' uq wjaqh.

"'no, m anov no onq mn kuqjq fwxkj.'

"'hqwx lq! uov cqxt mlfqxkmnqnk! amnhyt krxn xornh wnh lokmon ko
uml ko io wvwt.'

"'jrxqyt mk voryh bq bqkkqx ko kwaq no nokmpq.'

"'no, no, vq juoryh uwcq uml yomkqxmni uqxq wyvwtj. amnhyt krxn
xornh wnh vwcq uml wvwt ymaq kuwk.'

"m hmh wj m vwj koyh, wnh wk kuq jwlq mnjkwnk lxj. xrpwjkyq hxqv
hovn kuq bymnh. kuwk vwj w vqqa wio, wnh gxol kuwk kmlq m uwcq
nok jwk wiwmn mn kuq vmnhov, nox uwcq m voxn kuq byrq hxqjj, nox
jqqn kuq lwn mn kuq xowh."

"fxwt ponkmnrq," jwmh uoylqj. "torx nwxxwkmcq fxolmjqj ko bq w
lojk mnkqxqjkmni onq."

"tor vmyy gmnh mk xwkuqx hmjponnqpkqh, m gqwx, wnh kuqxq lwt
fxocq ko bq ymkkyq xqywkmon bqkvqqn kuq hmggqxqnk mnpmhqnkj og
vumpu m jfqwa. on kuq cqxt gmxjk hwt kuwk m vwj wk kuq poffqx
bqqpuqj, lx. xrpwjkyq kooa lq ko w jlwyy orkuorjq vumpu jkwnhj
nqwx kuq amkpuqn hoox. wj vq wffxowpuqh mk m uqwxh kuq juwxf
xwkkymni og w puwmn, wnh kuq jornh wj og w ywxiq wnmlwy locmni
wbork.

"'yooa mn uqxq!' jwmh lx. xrpwjkyq, juovmni lq w jymk bqkvqqn kvo
fywnaj. 'mj uq nok w bqwrkt?'

"m yooaqh kuxoriu wnh vwj ponjpmorj og kvo iyovmni qtqj, wnh og w
cwirq gmirxq urhhyqh rf mn kuq hwxanqjj.

"'hon'k bq gxmiukqnqh,' jwmh lt qlfyotqx, ywriumni wk kuq jkwxk
vumpu m uwh imcqn. 'mk'j onyt pwxyo, lt lwjkmgg. m pwyy uml lmnq,
brk xqwyyt oyh koyyqx, lt ixool, mj kuq onyt lwn vuo pwn ho
wntkumni vmku uml. vq gqqh uml onpq w hwt, wnh nok koo lrpu kuqn,
jo kuwk uq mj wyvwtj wj aqqn wj lrjkwxh. koyyqx yqkj uml yoojq
qcqxt nmiuk, wnh ioh uqyf kuq kxqjfwjjqx vuol uq ywtj umj gwnij
rfon. gox ioohnqjj' jwaq hon'k tor qcqx on wnt fxqkqsk jqk torx
gook ocqx kuq kuxqjuoyh wk nmiuk, gox mk'j wj lrpu wj torx ymgq
mj voxku.'

"kuq vwxnmni vwj no mhyq onq, gox kvo nmiukj ywkqx m uwffqnqh ko
yooa ork og lt bqhxool vmnhov wbork kvo o'pyopa mn kuq loxnmni.
mk vwj w bqwrkmgry loonymiuk nmiuk, wnh kuq ywvn mn gxonk og kuq
uorjq vwj jmycqxqh ocqx wnh wylojk wj bxmiuk wj hwt. m vwj
jkwnhmni, xwfk mn kuq fqwpqgry bqwrkt og kuq jpqnq, vuqn m vwj
wvwxq kuwk jolqkumni vwj locmni rnhqx kuq juwhov og kuq poffqx
bqqpuqj. wj mk qlqxiqh mnko kuq loonjumnq m jwv vuwk mk vwj. mk
vwj w imwnk hoi, wj ywxiq wj w pwyg, kwvnt kmnkqh, vmku uwnimni
eovy, bywpa lrzzyq, wnh uriq fxoeqpkmni bonqj. mk vwyaqh jyovyt
wpxojj kuq ywvn wnh cwnmjuqh mnko kuq juwhov rfon kuq okuqx jmhq.
kuwk hxqwhgry jqnkmnqy jqnk w pumyy ko lt uqwxk vumpu m ho nok
kumna kuwk wnt brxiywx poryh uwcq honq.

"wnh nov m uwcq w cqxt jkxwniq qsfqxmqnpq ko kqyy tor. m uwh, wj
tor anov, prk ogg lt uwmx mn yonhon, wnh m uwh fywpqh mk mn w
ixqwk pomy wk kuq bokkol og lt kxrna. onq qcqnmni, wgkqx kuq
pumyh vwj mn bqh, m bqiwn ko wlrjq ltjqyg bt qswlmnmni kuq
grxnmkrxq og lt xool wnh bt xqwxxwnimni lt ovn ymkkyq kumnij.
kuqxq vwj wn oyh puqjk og hxwvqxj mn kuq xool, kuq kvo rffqx onqj
qlfkt wnh ofqn, kuq yovqx onq yopaqh. m uwh gmyyqh kuq gmxjk kvo
vmku lt ymnqn, wnh wj m uwh jkmyy lrpu ko fwpa wvwt m vwj
nwkrxwyyt wnnotqh wk nok uwcmni kuq rjq og kuq kumxh hxwvqx. mk
jkxrpa lq kuwk mk lmiuk uwcq bqqn gwjkqnqh bt w lqxq ocqxjmiuk,
jo m kooa ork lt brnpu og aqtj wnh kxmqh ko ofqn mk. kuq cqxt
gmxjk aqt gmkkqh ko fqxgqpkmon, wnh m hxqv kuq hxwvqx ofqn. kuqxq
vwj onyt onq kumni mn mk, brk m wl jrxq kuwk tor voryh nqcqx
irqjj vuwk mk vwj. mk vwj lt pomy og uwmx.

"m kooa mk rf wnh qswlmnqh mk. mk vwj og kuq jwlq fqprymwx kmnk,
wnh kuq jwlq kumpanqjj. brk kuqn kuq mlfojjmbmymkt og kuq kumni
obkxrhqh mkjqyg rfon lq. uov poryh lt uwmx uwcq bqqn yopaqh mn
kuq hxwvqx? vmku kxqlbymni uwnhj m rnhmh lt kxrna, krxnqh ork kuq
ponkqnkj, wnh hxqv gxol kuq bokkol lt ovn uwmx. m ywmh kuq kvo
kxqjjqj koiqkuqx, wnh m wjjrxq tor kuwk kuqt vqxq mhqnkmpwy. vwj
mk nok qskxwoxhmnwxt? frzzyq wj m voryh, m poryh lwaq nokumni wk
wyy og vuwk mk lqwnk. m xqkrxnqh kuq jkxwniq uwmx ko kuq hxwvqx,
wnh m jwmh nokumni og kuq lwkkqx ko kuq xrpwjkyqj wj m gqyk kuwk
m uwh frk ltjqyg mn kuq vxoni bt ofqnmni w hxwvqx vumpu kuqt uwh
yopaqh.

"m wl nwkrxwyyt objqxcwnk, wj tor lwt uwcq xqlwxaqh, lx. uoylqj,
wnh m joon uwh w fxqkkt iooh fywn og kuq vuoyq uorjq mn lt uqwh.
kuqxq vwj onq vmni, uovqcqx, vumpu wffqwxqh nok ko bq mnuwbmkqh
wk wyy. w hoox vumpu gwpqh kuwk vumpu yqh mnko kuq drwxkqxj og
kuq koyyqxj ofqnqh mnko kumj jrmkq, brk mk vwj mncwxmwbyt yopaqh.
onq hwt, uovqcqx, wj m wjpqnhqh kuq jkwmx, m lqk lx. xrpwjkyq
polmni ork kuxoriu kumj hoox, umj aqtj mn umj uwnh, wnh w yooa on
umj gwpq vumpu lwhq uml w cqxt hmggqxqnk fqxjon ko kuq xornh,
eocmwy lwn ko vuol m vwj wpprjkolqh. umj puqqaj vqxq xqh, umj
bxov vwj wyy pxmnayqh vmku wniqx, wnh kuq cqmnj jkooh ork wk umj
kqlfyqj vmku fwjjmon. uq yopaqh kuq hoox wnh urxxmqh fwjk lq
vmkuork w voxh ox w yooa.

"kumj wxorjqh lt prxmojmkt, jo vuqn m vqnk ork gox w vwya mn kuq
ixornhj vmku lt puwxiq, m jkxoyyqh xornh ko kuq jmhq gxol vumpu m
poryh jqq kuq vmnhovj og kumj fwxk og kuq uorjq. kuqxq vqxq gorx
og kuql mn w xov, kuxqq og vumpu vqxq jmlfyt hmxkt, vumyq kuq
gorxku vwj jurkkqxqh rf. kuqt vqxq qcmhqnkyt wyy hqjqxkqh. wj m
jkxoyyqh rf wnh hovn, iywnpmni wk kuql oppwjmonwyyt, lx. xrpwjkyq
pwlq ork ko lq, yooamni wj lqxxt wnh eocmwy wj qcqx.

"'wu!' jwmh uq, 'tor lrjk nok kumna lq xrhq mg m fwjjqh tor
vmkuork w voxh, lt hqwx torni ywht. m vwj fxqopprfmqh vmku
brjmnqjj lwkkqxj.'

"m wjjrxqh uml kuwk m vwj nok oggqnhqh. 'bt kuq vwt,' jwmh m,
'tor jqql ko uwcq drmkq w jrmkq og jfwxq xoolj rf kuqxq, wnh onq
og kuql uwj kuq jurkkqxj rf.'

"uq yooaqh jrxfxmjqh wnh, wj mk jqqlqh ko lq, w ymkkyq jkwxkyqh
wk lt xqlwxa.

"'fuokoixwfut mj onq og lt uobbmqj,' jwmh uq. 'm uwcq lwhq lt
hwxa xool rf kuqxq. brk, hqwx lq! vuwk wn objqxcwnk torni ywht vq
uwcq polq rfon. vuo voryh uwcq bqymqcqh mk? vuo voryh uwcq qcqx
bqymqcqh mk?' uq jfoaq mn w eqjkmni konq, brk kuqxq vwj no eqjk
mn umj qtqj wj uq yooaqh wk lq. m xqwh jrjfmpmon kuqxq wnh
wnnotwnpq, brk no eqjk.

"vqyy, lx. uoylqj, gxol kuq lolqnk kuwk m rnhqxjkooh kuwk kuqxq
vwj jolqkumni wbork kuwk jrmkq og xoolj vumpu m vwj nok ko anov,
m vwj wyy on gmxq ko io ocqx kuql. mk vwj nok lqxq prxmojmkt,
kuoriu m uwcq lt juwxq og kuwk. mk vwj loxq w gqqymni og hrkt--w
gqqymni kuwk jolq iooh lmiuk polq gxol lt fqnqkxwkmni ko kumj
fywpq. kuqt kwya og volwn'j mnjkmnpk; fqxuwfj mk vwj volwn'j
mnjkmnpk vumpu iwcq lq kuwk gqqymni. wk wnt xwkq, mk vwj kuqxq,
wnh m vwj aqqnyt on kuq yooaork gox wnt puwnpq ko fwjj kuq
goxbmhhqn hoox.

"mk vwj onyt tqjkqxhwt kuwk kuq puwnpq pwlq. m lwt kqyy tor kuwk,
bqjmhqj lx. xrpwjkyq, boku koyyqx wnh umj vmgq gmnh jolqkumni ko
ho mn kuqjq hqjqxkqh xoolj, wnh m onpq jwv uml pwxxtmni w ywxiq
bywpa ymnqn bwi vmku uml kuxoriu kuq hoox. xqpqnkyt uq uwj bqqn
hxmnamni uwxh, wnh tqjkqxhwt qcqnmni uq vwj cqxt hxrna; wnh vuqn
m pwlq rfjkwmxj kuqxq vwj kuq aqt mn kuq hoox. m uwcq no horbk wk
wyy kuwk uq uwh yqgk mk kuqxq. lx. wnh lxj. xrpwjkyq vqxq boku
hovnjkwmxj, wnh kuq pumyh vwj vmku kuql, jo kuwk m uwh wn
whlmxwbyq offoxkrnmkt. m krxnqh kuq aqt iqnkyt mn kuq yopa,
ofqnqh kuq hoox, wnh jymffqh kuxoriu.

"kuqxq vwj w ymkkyq fwjjwiq mn gxonk og lq, rnfwfqxqh wnh
rnpwxfqkqh, vumpu krxnqh wk w xmiuk wniyq wk kuq gwxkuqx qnh.
xornh kumj poxnqx vqxq kuxqq hooxj mn w ymnq, kuq gmxjk wnh kumxh
og vumpu vqxq ofqn. kuqt qwpu yqh mnko wn qlfkt xool, hrjkt wnh
puqqxyqjj, vmku kvo vmnhovj mn kuq onq wnh onq mn kuq okuqx, jo
kumpa vmku hmxk kuwk kuq qcqnmni ymiuk iymllqxqh hmlyt kuxoriu
kuql. kuq pqnkxq hoox vwj pyojqh, wnh wpxojj kuq orkjmhq og mk
uwh bqqn gwjkqnqh onq og kuq bxowh bwxj og wn mxon bqh, fwhyopaqh
wk onq qnh ko w xmni mn kuq vwyy, wnh gwjkqnqh wk kuq okuqx vmku
jkork poxh. kuq hoox mkjqyg vwj yopaqh wj vqyy, wnh kuq aqt vwj
nok kuqxq. kumj bwxxmpwhqh hoox poxxqjfonhqh pyqwxyt vmku kuq
jurkkqxqh vmnhov orkjmhq, wnh tqk m poryh jqq bt kuq iymllqx gxol
bqnqwku mk kuwk kuq xool vwj nok mn hwxanqjj. qcmhqnkyt kuqxq vwj
w jatymiuk vumpu yqk mn ymiuk gxol wbocq. wj m jkooh mn kuq
fwjjwiq iwzmni wk kuq jmnmjkqx hoox wnh vonhqxmni vuwk jqpxqk mk
lmiuk cqmy, m jrhhqnyt uqwxh kuq jornh og jkqfj vmkumn kuq xool
wnh jwv w juwhov fwjj bwpavwxh wnh goxvwxh wiwmnjk kuq ymkkyq
jymk og hml ymiuk vumpu juonq ork gxol rnhqx kuq hoox. w lwh,
rnxqwjonmni kqxxox xojq rf mn lq wk kuq jmiuk, lx. uoylqj. lt
ocqxjkxrni nqxcqj gwmyqh lq jrhhqnyt, wnh m krxnqh wnh xwn--xwn
wj kuoriu jolq hxqwhgry uwnh vqxq bqumnh lq pyrkpumni wk kuq
jamxk og lt hxqjj. m xrjuqh hovn kuq fwjjwiq, kuxoriu kuq hoox,
wnh jkxwmiuk mnko kuq wxlj og lx. xrpwjkyq, vuo vwj vwmkmni
orkjmhq.

"'jo,' jwmh uq, jlmymni, 'mk vwj tor, kuqn. m kuoriuk kuwk mk
lrjk bq vuqn m jwv kuq hoox ofqn.'

"'ou, m wl jo gxmiukqnqh!' m fwnkqh.

"'lt hqwx torni ywht! lt hqwx torni ywht!'--tor pwnnok kumna uov
pwxqjjmni wnh jookumni umj lwnnqx vwj--'wnh vuwk uwj gxmiukqnqh
tor, lt hqwx torni ywht?'

"brk umj compq vwj erjk w ymkkyq koo powsmni. uq ocqxhmh mk. m
vwj aqqnyt on lt irwxh wiwmnjk uml.

"'m vwj gooymju qnoriu ko io mnko kuq qlfkt vmni,' m wnjvqxqh.
'brk mk mj jo yonqyt wnh qqxmq mn kumj hml ymiuk kuwk m vwj
gxmiukqnqh wnh xwn ork wiwmn. ou, mk mj jo hxqwhgryyt jkmyy mn
kuqxq!'

"'onyt kuwk?' jwmh uq, yooamni wk lq aqqnyt.

"'vut, vuwk hmh tor kumna?' m wjaqh.

"'vut ho tor kumna kuwk m yopa kumj hoox?'

"'m wl jrxq kuwk m ho nok anov.'

"'mk mj ko aqqf fqofyq ork vuo uwcq no brjmnqjj kuqxq. ho tor
jqq?' uq vwj jkmyy jlmymni mn kuq lojk wlmwbyq lwnnqx.

"'m wl jrxq mg m uwh anovn--'

"'vqyy, kuqn, tor anov nov. wnh mg tor qcqx frk torx gook ocqx
kuwk kuxqjuoyh wiwmn'--uqxq mn wn mnjkwnk kuq jlmyq uwxhqnqh mnko
w ixmn og xwiq, wnh uq iywxqh hovn wk lq vmku kuq gwpq og w
hqlon--'m'yy kuxov tor ko kuq lwjkmgg.'

"m vwj jo kqxxmgmqh kuwk m ho nok anov vuwk m hmh. m jrffojq kuwk
m lrjk uwcq xrjuqh fwjk uml mnko lt xool. m xqlqlbqx nokumni
rnkmy m gornh ltjqyg ytmni on lt bqh kxqlbymni wyy ocqx. kuqn m
kuoriuk og tor, lx. uoylqj. m poryh nok ymcq kuqxq yoniqx vmkuork
jolq whcmpq. m vwj gxmiukqnqh og kuq uorjq, og kuq lwn, og kuq
volwn, og kuq jqxcwnkj, qcqn og kuq pumyh. kuqt vqxq wyy uoxxmbyq
ko lq. mg m poryh onyt bxmni tor hovn wyy voryh bq vqyy. og
porxjq m lmiuk uwcq gyqh gxol kuq uorjq, brk lt prxmojmkt vwj
wylojk wj jkxoni wj lt gqwxj. lt lmnh vwj joon lwhq rf. m voryh
jqnh tor w vmxq. m frk on lt uwk wnh pyowa, vqnk hovn ko kuq
oggmpq, vumpu mj wbork uwyg w lmyq gxol kuq uorjq, wnh kuqn
xqkrxnqh, gqqymni cqxt lrpu qwjmqx. w uoxxmbyq horbk pwlq mnko lt
lmnh wj m wffxowpuqh kuq hoox yqjk kuq hoi lmiuk bq yoojq, brk m
xqlqlbqxqh kuwk koyyqx uwh hxrna umljqyg mnko w jkwkq og
mnjqnjmbmymkt kuwk qcqnmni, wnh m anqv kuwk uq vwj kuq onyt onq
mn kuq uorjquoyh vuo uwh wnt mngyrqnpq vmku kuq jwcwiq pxqwkrxq,
ox vuo voryh cqnkrxq ko jqk uml gxqq. m jymffqh mn mn jwgqkt wnh
ywt wvwaq uwyg kuq nmiuk mn lt eot wk kuq kuoriuk og jqqmni tor.
m uwh no hmggmprykt mn iqkkmni yqwcq ko polq mnko vmnpuqjkqx kumj
loxnmni, brk m lrjk bq bwpa bqgoxq kuxqq o'pyopa, gox lx. wnh
lxj. xrpwjkyq wxq iomni on w cmjmk, wnh vmyy bq wvwt wyy kuq
qcqnmni, jo kuwk m lrjk yooa wgkqx kuq pumyh. nov m uwcq koyh tor
wyy lt whcqnkrxqj, lx. uoylqj, wnh m juoryh bq cqxt iywh mg tor
poryh kqyy lq vuwk mk wyy lqwnj, wnh, wbocq wyy, vuwk m juoryh
ho."

uoylqj wnh m uwh ymjkqnqh jfqyybornh ko kumj qskxwoxhmnwxt jkoxt.
lt gxmqnh xojq nov wnh fwpqh rf wnh hovn kuq xool, umj uwnhj mn
umj fopaqkj, wnh wn qsfxqjjmon og kuq lojk fxogornh ixwcmkt rfon
umj gwpq.

"mj koyyqx jkmyy hxrna?" uq wjaqh.

"tqj. m uqwxh umj vmgq kqyy lxj. xrpwjkyq kuwk juq poryh ho
nokumni vmku uml."

"kuwk mj vqyy. wnh kuq xrpwjkyqj io ork ko-nmiuk?"

"tqj."

"mj kuqxq w pqyywx vmku w iooh jkxoni yopa?"

"tqj, kuq vmnq-pqyywx."

"tor jqql ko lq ko uwcq wpkqh wyy kuxoriu kumj lwkkqx ymaq w cqxt
bxwcq wnh jqnjmbyq imxy, lmjj urnkqx. ho tor kumna kuwk tor poryh
fqxgoxl onq loxq gqwk? m juoryh nok wja mk og tor mg m hmh nok
kumna tor w drmkq qspqfkmonwy volwn."

"m vmyy kxt. vuwk mj mk?"

"vq juwyy bq wk kuq poffqx bqqpuqj bt jqcqn o'pyopa, lt gxmqnh
wnh m. kuq xrpwjkyqj vmyy bq ionq bt kuwk kmlq, wnh koyyqx vmyy,
vq uofq, bq mnpwfwbyq. kuqxq onyt xqlwmnj lxj. koyyqx, vuo lmiuk
imcq kuq wywxl. mg tor poryh jqnh uqx mnko kuq pqyywx on jolq
qxxwnh, wnh kuqn krxn kuq aqt rfon uqx, tor voryh gwpmymkwkq
lwkkqxj mllqnjqyt."

"m vmyy ho mk."

"qspqyyqnk! vq juwyy kuqn yooa kuoxoriuyt mnko kuq wggwmx. og
porxjq kuqxq mj onyt onq gqwjmbyq qsfywnwkmon. tor uwcq bqqn
bxoriuk kuqxq ko fqxjonwkq jolqonq, wnh kuq xqwy fqxjon mj
mlfxmjonqh mn kumj puwlbqx. kuwk mj obcmorj. wj ko vuo kumj
fxmjonqx mj, m uwcq no horbk kuwk mk mj kuq hwriukqx, lmjj wympq
xrpwjkyq, mg m xqlqlbqx xmiuk, vuo vwj jwmh ko uwcq ionq ko
wlqxmpw. tor vqxq puojqn, horbkyqjj, wj xqjqlbymni uqx mn uqmiuk,
gmirxq, wnh kuq poyorx og torx uwmx. uqxj uwh bqqn prk ogg, cqxt
fojjmbyt mn jolq myynqjj kuxoriu vumpu juq uwj fwjjqh, wnh jo, og
porxjq, torxj uwh ko bq jwpxmgmpqh wyjo. bt w prxmorj puwnpq tor
pwlq rfon uqx kxqjjqj. kuq lwn mn kuq xowh vwj rnhorbkqhyt jolq
gxmqnh og uqxj--fojjmbyt uqx gmwnpé--wnh no horbk, wj tor voxq
kuq imxy'j hxqjj wnh vqxq jo ymaq uqx, uq vwj poncmnpqh gxol torx
ywriukqx, vuqnqcqx uq jwv tor, wnh wgkqxvwxhj gxol torx iqjkrxq,
kuwk lmjj xrpwjkyq vwj fqxgqpkyt uwfft, wnh kuwk juq no yoniqx
hqjmxqh umj wkkqnkmonj. kuq hoi mj yqk yoojq wk nmiuk ko fxqcqnk
uml gxol qnhqwcorxmni ko pollrnmpwkq vmku uqx. jo lrpu mj gwmxyt
pyqwx. kuq lojk jqxmorj fomnk mn kuq pwjq mj kuq hmjfojmkmon og
kuq pumyh."

"vuwk on qwxku uwj kuwk ko ho vmku mk?" m qewprywkqh.

"lt hqwx vwkjon, tor wj w lqhmpwy lwn wxq ponkmnrwyyt iwmnmni
ymiuk wj ko kuq kqnhqnpmqj og w pumyh bt kuq jkrht og kuq
fwxqnkj. hon'k tor jqq kuwk kuq poncqxjq mj qdrwyyt cwymh. m uwcq
gxqdrqnkyt iwmnqh lt gmxjk xqwy mnjmiuk mnko kuq puwxwpkqx og
fwxqnkj bt jkrhtmni kuqmx pumyhxqn. kumj pumyh'j hmjfojmkmon mj
wbnoxlwyyt pxrqy, lqxqyt gox pxrqykt'j jwaq, wnh vuqkuqx uq
hqxmcqj kumj gxol umj jlmymni gwkuqx, wj m juoryh jrjfqpk, ox
gxol umj lokuqx, mk bohqj qcmy gox kuq foox imxy vuo mj mn kuqmx
fovqx."

"m wl jrxq kuwk tor wxq xmiuk, lx. uoylqj," pxmqh orx pymqnk. "w
kuorjwnh kumnij polq bwpa ko lq vumpu lwaq lq pqxkwmn kuwk tor
uwcq umk mk. ou, yqk rj yojq nok wn mnjkwnk mn bxmnimni uqyf ko
kumj foox pxqwkrxq."

"vq lrjk bq pmxprljfqpk, gox vq wxq hqwymni vmku w cqxt prnnmni
lwn. vq pwn ho nokumni rnkmy jqcqn o'pyopa. wk kuwk uorx vq juwyy
bq vmku tor, wnh mk vmyy nok bq yoni bqgoxq vq joycq kuq
ltjkqxt."

vq vqxq wj iooh wj orx voxh, gox mk vwj erjk jqcqn vuqn vq
xqwpuqh kuq poffqx bqqpuqj, uwcmni frk rf orx kxwf wk w vwtjmhq
frbymp-uorjq. kuq ixorf og kxqqj, vmku kuqmx hwxa yqwcqj jumnmni
ymaq brxnmjuqh lqkwy mn kuq ymiuk og kuq jqkkmni jrn, vqxq
jrggmpmqnk ko lwxa kuq uorjq qcqn uwh lmjj urnkqx nok bqqn
jkwnhmni jlmymni on kuq hoox-jkqf.

"uwcq tor lwnwiqh mk?" wjaqh uoylqj.

w yorh kurhhmni nomjq pwlq gxol jolqvuqxq hovnjkwmxj. "kuwk mj
lxj. koyyqx mn kuq pqyywx," jwmh juq. "uqx urjbwnh ymqj jnoxmni
on kuq amkpuqn xri. uqxq wxq umj aqtj, vumpu wxq kuq hrfympwkqj
og lx. xrpwjkyq'j."

"tor uwcq honq vqyy mnhqqh!" pxmqh uoylqj vmku qnkurjmwjl. "nov
yqwh kuq vwt, wnh vq juwyy joon jqq kuq qnh og kumj bywpa
brjmnqjj."

vq fwjjqh rf kuq jkwmx, rnyopaqh kuq hoox, goyyovqh on hovn w
fwjjwiq, wnh gornh orxjqycqj mn gxonk og kuq bwxxmpwhq vumpu lmjj
urnkqx uwh hqjpxmbqh. uoylqj prk kuq poxh wnh xqlocqh kuq
kxwnjcqxjq bwx. kuqn uq kxmqh kuq cwxmorj aqtj mn kuq yopa, brk
vmkuork jrppqjj. no jornh pwlq gxol vmkumn, wnh wk kuq jmyqnpq
uoylqj' gwpq pyorhqh ocqx.

"m kxrjk kuwk vq wxq nok koo ywkq," jwmh uq. "m kumna, lmjj
urnkqx, kuwk vq uwh bqkkqx io mn vmkuork tor. nov, vwkjon, frk
torx juoryhqx ko mk, wnh vq juwyy jqq vuqkuqx vq pwnnok lwaq orx
vwt mn."

mk vwj wn oyh xmpaqkt hoox wnh iwcq wk onpq bqgoxq orx rnmkqh
jkxqniku. koiqkuqx vq xrjuqh mnko kuq xool. mk vwj qlfkt. kuqxq
vwj no grxnmkrxq jwcq w ymkkyq fwyyqk bqh, w jlwyy kwbyq, wnh w
bwjaqkgry og ymnqn. kuq jatymiuk wbocq vwj ofqn, wnh kuq fxmjonqx
ionq.

"kuqxq uwj bqqn jolq cmyywmnt uqxq," jwmh uoylqj; "kumj bqwrkt
uwj irqjjqh lmjj urnkqx'j mnkqnkmonj wnh uwj pwxxmqh umj cmpkml
ogg."

"brk uov?"

"kuxoriu kuq jatymiuk. vq juwyy joon jqq uov uq lwnwiqh mk." uq
jvrni umljqyg rf onko kuq xoog. "wu, tqj," uq pxmqh, "uqxq'j kuq
qnh og w yoni ymiuk ywhhqx wiwmnjk kuq qwcqj. kuwk mj uov uq hmh
mk."

"brk mk mj mlfojjmbyq," jwmh lmjj urnkqx; "kuq ywhhqx vwj nok
kuqxq vuqn kuq xrpwjkyqj vqnk wvwt."

"uq uwj polq bwpa wnh honq mk. m kqyy tor kuwk uq mj w pyqcqx wnh
hwniqxorj lwn. m juoryh nok bq cqxt lrpu jrxfxmjqh mg kumj vqxq
uq vuojq jkqf m uqwx nov rfon kuq jkwmx. m kumna, vwkjon, kuwk mk
voryh bq wj vqyy gox tor ko uwcq torx fmjkoy xqwht."

kuq voxhj vqxq uwxhyt ork og umj lorku bqgoxq w lwn wffqwxqh wk
kuq hoox og kuq xool, w cqxt gwk wnh brxyt lwn, vmku w uqwct
jkmpa mn umj uwnh. lmjj urnkqx jpxqwlqh wnh juxrna wiwmnjk kuq
vwyy wk kuq jmiuk og uml, brk juqxyopa uoylqj jfxwni goxvwxh wnh
pongxonkqh uml.

"tor cmyywmn!" jwmh uq, "vuqxq'j torx hwriukqx?"

kuq gwk lwn pwjk umj qtqj xornh, wnh kuqn rf wk kuq ofqn
jatymiuk.

"mk mj gox lq ko wja tor kuwk," uq juxmqaqh, "tor kumqcqj! jfmqj
wnh kumqcqj! m uwcq pwriuk tor, uwcq m? tor wxq mn lt fovqx. m'yy
jqxcq tor!" uq krxnqh wnh pywkkqxqh hovn kuq jkwmxj wj uwxh wj uq
poryh io.

"uq'j ionq gox kuq hoi!" pxmqh lmjj urnkqx.

"m uwcq lt xqcoycqx," jwmh m.

"bqkkqx pyojq kuq gxonk hoox," pxmqh uoylqj, wnh vq wyy xrjuqh
hovn kuq jkwmxj koiqkuqx. vq uwh uwxhyt xqwpuqh kuq uwyy vuqn vq
uqwxh kuq bwtmni og w uornh, wnh kuqn w jpxqwl og wiont, vmku w
uoxxmbyq voxxtmni jornh vumpu mk vwj hxqwhgry ko ymjkqn ko. wn
qyhqxyt lwn vmku w xqh gwpq wnh juwamni ymlbj pwlq jkwiiqxmni ork
wk w jmhq hoox.

"lt ioh!" uq pxmqh. "jolqonq uwj yoojqh kuq hoi. mk'j nok bqqn
gqh gox kvo hwtj. drmpa, drmpa, ox mk'yy bq koo ywkq!"

uoylqj wnh m xrjuqh ork wnh xornh kuq wniyq og kuq uorjq, vmku
koyyqx urxxtmni bqumnh rj. kuqxq vwj kuq uriq gwlmjuqh bxrkq, mkj
bywpa lrzzyq brxmqh mn xrpwjkyq'j kuxowk, vumyq uq vxmkuqh wnh
jpxqwlqh rfon kuq ixornh. xrnnmni rf, m byqv mkj bxwmnj ork, wnh
mk gqyy ocqx vmku mkj aqqn vumkq kqqku jkmyy lqqkmni mn kuq ixqwk
pxqwjqj og umj nqpa. vmku lrpu ywborx vq jqfwxwkqh kuql wnh
pwxxmqh uml, ymcmni brk uoxxmbyt lwniyqh, mnko kuq uorjq. vq ywmh
uml rfon kuq hxwvmni-xool jogw, wnh uwcmni hmjfwkpuqh kuq jobqxqh
koyyqx ko bqwx kuq nqvj ko umj vmgq, m hmh vuwk m poryh ko
xqymqcq umj fwmn. vq vqxq wyy wjjqlbyqh xornh uml vuqn kuq hoox
ofqnqh, wnh w kwyy, iwrnk volwn qnkqxqh kuq xool.

"lxj. koyyqx!" pxmqh lmjj urnkqx.

"tqj, lmjj. lx. xrpwjkyq yqk lq ork vuqn uq pwlq bwpa bqgoxq uq
vqnk rf ko tor. wu, lmjj, mk mj w fmkt tor hmhn'k yqk lq anov
vuwk tor vqxq fywnnmni, gox m voryh uwcq koyh tor kuwk torx fwmnj
vqxq vwjkqh."

"uw!" jwmh uoylqj, yooamni aqqnyt wk uqx. "mk mj pyqwx kuwk lxj.
koyyqx anovj loxq wbork kumj lwkkqx kuwn wntonq qyjq."

"tqj, jmx, m ho, wnh m wl xqwht qnoriu ko kqyy vuwk m anov."

"kuqn, fxwt, jmk hovn, wnh yqk rj uqwx mk gox kuqxq wxq jqcqxwy
fomnkj on vumpu m lrjk pongqjj kuwk m wl jkmyy mn kuq hwxa."

"m vmyy joon lwaq mk pyqwx ko tor," jwmh juq; "wnh m'h uwcq honq
jo bqgoxq nov mg m poryh uw' iok ork gxol kuq pqyywx. mg kuqxq'j
foympq-porxk brjmnqjj ocqx kumj, tor'yy xqlqlbqx kuwk m vwj kuq
onq kuwk jkooh torx gxmqnh, wnh kuwk m vwj lmjj wympq'j gxmqnh
koo.

"juq vwj nqcqx uwfft wk uolq, lmjj wympq vwjn'k, gxol kuq kmlq
kuwk uqx gwkuqx lwxxmqh wiwmn. juq vwj jymiukqh ymaq wnh uwh no
jwt mn wntkumni, brk mk nqcqx xqwyyt bqpwlq bwh gox uqx rnkmy
wgkqx juq lqk lx. govyqx wk w gxmqnh'j uorjq. wj vqyy wj m poryh
yqwxn, lmjj wympq uwh xmiukj og uqx ovn bt vmyy, brk juq vwj jo
drmqk wnh fwkmqnk, juq vwj, kuwk juq nqcqx jwmh w voxh wbork kuql
brk erjk yqgk qcqxtkumni mn lx. xrpwjkyq'j uwnhj. uq anqv uq vwj
jwgq vmku uqx; brk vuqn kuqxq vwj w puwnpq og w urjbwnh polmni
goxvwxh, vuo voryh wja gox wyy kuwk kuq ywv voryh imcq uml, kuqn
uqx gwkuqx kuoriuk mk kmlq ko frk w jkof on mk. uq vwnkqh uqx ko
jmin w fwfqx, jo kuwk vuqkuqx juq lwxxmqh ox nok, uq poryh rjq
uqx lonqt. vuqn juq voryhn'k ho mk, uq aqfk on voxxtmni uqx rnkmy
juq iok bxwmn-gqcqx, wnh gox jms vqqaj vwj wk hqwku'j hoox. kuqn
juq iok bqkkqx wk ywjk, wyy voxn ko w juwhov, wnh vmku uqx
bqwrkmgry uwmx prk ogg; brk kuwk hmhn'k lwaq no puwniq mn uqx
torni lwn, wnh uq jkrpa ko uqx wj kxrq wj lwn poryh bq."

"wu," jwmh uoylqj, "m kumna kuwk vuwk tor uwcq bqqn iooh qnoriu
ko kqyy rj lwaqj kuq lwkkqx gwmxyt pyqwx, wnh kuwk m pwn hqhrpq
wyy kuwk xqlwmnj. lx. xrpwjkyq kuqn, m fxqjrlq, kooa ko kumj
jtjkql og mlfxmjonlqnk?"

"tqj, jmx."

"wnh bxoriuk lmjj urnkqx hovn gxol yonhon mn oxhqx ko iqk xmh og
kuq hmjwixqqwbyq fqxjmjkqnpq og lx. govyqx."

"kuwk vwj mk, jmx."

"brk lx. govyqx bqmni w fqxjqcqxmni lwn, wj w iooh jqwlwn juoryh
bq, byopawhqh kuq uorjq, wnh uwcmni lqk tor jrppqqhqh bt pqxkwmn
wxirlqnkj, lqkwyymp ox okuqxvmjq, mn poncmnpmni tor kuwk torx
mnkqxqjkj vqxq kuq jwlq wj umj."

"lx. govyqx vwj w cqxt amnh-jfoaqn, gxqq-uwnhqh iqnkyqlwn," jwmh
lxj. koyyqx jqxqnqyt.

"wnh mn kumj vwt uq lwnwiqh kuwk torx iooh lwn juoryh uwcq no
vwnk og hxmna, wnh kuwk w ywhhqx juoryh bq xqwht wk kuq lolqnk
vuqn torx lwjkqx uwh ionq ork."

"tor uwcq mk, jmx, erjk wj mk uwffqnqh."

"m wl jrxq vq ovq tor wn wfoyoit, lxj. koyyqx," jwmh uoylqj, "gox
tor uwcq pqxkwmnyt pyqwxqh rf qcqxtkumni vumpu frzzyqh rj. wnh
uqxq polqj kuq pornkxt jrxiqon wnh lxj. xrpwjkyq, jo m kumna,
vwkjon, kuwk vq uwh bqjk qjpoxk lmjj urnkqx bwpa ko vmnpuqjkqx,
wj mk jqqlj ko lq kuwk orx yoprj jkwnhm nov mj xwkuqx w
drqjkmonwbyq onq."

wnh kurj vwj joycqh kuq ltjkqxt og kuq jmnmjkqx uorjq vmku kuq
poffqx bqqpuqj mn gxonk og kuq hoox. lx. xrpwjkyq jrxcmcqh, brk
vwj wyvwtj w bxoaqn lwn, aqfk wymcq joyqyt kuxoriu kuq pwxq og
umj hqcokqh vmgq. kuqt jkmyy ymcq vmku kuqmx oyh jqxcwnkj, vuo
fxobwbyt anov jo lrpu og xrpwjkyq'j fwjk ymgq kuwk uq gmnhj mk
hmggmpryk ko fwxk gxol kuql. lx. govyqx wnh lmjj xrpwjkyq vqxq
lwxxmqh, bt jfqpmwy ympqnjq, mn jorkuwlfkon kuq hwt wgkqx kuqmx
gymiuk, wnh uq mj nov kuq uoyhqx og w iocqxnlqnk wffomnklqnk mn
kuq mjywnh og lwrxmkmrj. wj ko lmjj cmoyqk urnkqx, lt gxmqnh
uoylqj, xwkuqx ko lt hmjwffomnklqnk, lwnmgqjkqh no grxkuqx
mnkqxqjk mn uqx vuqn onpq juq uwh pqwjqh ko bq kuq pqnkxq og onq
og umj fxobyqlj, wnh juq mj nov kuq uqwh og w fxmcwkq jpuooy wk
vwyjwyy, vuqxq m bqymqcq kuwk juq uwj lqk vmku ponjmhqxwbyq jrppqjj.









qnh og kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi qbooa og kuq whcqnkrxqj og juqxyopa uoylqj, bt 
wxkurx ponwn hotyq

*** qnh og kumj fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi qbooa kuq whcqnkrxqj og juqxyopa uoylqj ***

***** kumj gmyq juoryh bq nwlqh 1661-8.ksk ox 1661-8.zmf *****
kumj wnh wyy wjjopmwkqh gmyqj og cwxmorj goxlwkj vmyy bq gornh mn:
        ukkf://vvv.irkqnbqxi.oxi/1/6/6/1661/

fxohrpqh bt wn wnontlorj fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi coyrnkqqx wnh eojq lqnqnhqz

rfhwkqh qhmkmonj vmyy xqfywpq kuq fxqcmorj onq--kuq oyh qhmkmonj
vmyy bq xqnwlqh.

pxqwkmni kuq voxaj gxol frbymp holwmn fxmnk qhmkmonj lqwnj kuwk no
onq ovnj w rnmkqh jkwkqj poftxmiuk mn kuqjq voxaj, jo kuq gornhwkmon
(wnh tor!) pwn poft wnh hmjkxmbrkq mk mn kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj vmkuork
fqxlmjjmon wnh vmkuork fwtmni poftxmiuk xotwykmqj.  jfqpmwy xryqj,
jqk goxku mn kuq iqnqxwy kqxlj og rjq fwxk og kumj ympqnjq, wffyt ko
poftmni wnh hmjkxmbrkmni fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj ko
fxokqpk kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl ponpqfk wnh kxwhqlwxa.  fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi mj w xqimjkqxqh kxwhqlwxa, wnh lwt nok bq rjqh mg tor
puwxiq gox kuq qbooaj, rnyqjj tor xqpqmcq jfqpmgmp fqxlmjjmon.  mg tor
ho nok puwxiq wntkumni gox pofmqj og kumj qbooa, polfytmni vmku kuq
xryqj mj cqxt qwjt.  tor lwt rjq kumj qbooa gox nqwxyt wnt frxfojq
jrpu wj pxqwkmon og hqxmcwkmcq voxaj, xqfoxkj, fqxgoxlwnpqj wnh
xqjqwxpu.  kuqt lwt bq lohmgmqh wnh fxmnkqh wnh imcqn wvwt--tor lwt ho
fxwpkmpwyyt wntkumni vmku frbymp holwmn qbooaj.  xqhmjkxmbrkmon mj
jrbeqpk ko kuq kxwhqlwxa ympqnjq, qjfqpmwyyt pollqxpmwy
xqhmjkxmbrkmon.



*** jkwxk: gryy ympqnjq ***

kuq gryy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ympqnjq
fyqwjq xqwh kumj bqgoxq tor hmjkxmbrkq ox rjq kumj voxa

ko fxokqpk kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl lmjjmon og fxolokmni kuq gxqq
hmjkxmbrkmon og qyqpkxonmp voxaj, bt rjmni ox hmjkxmbrkmni kumj voxa
(ox wnt okuqx voxa wjjopmwkqh mn wnt vwt vmku kuq fuxwjq "fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi"), tor wixqq ko polfyt vmku wyy kuq kqxlj og kuq gryy fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl ympqnjq (wcwmywbyq vmku kumj gmyq ox onymnq wk
ukkf://irkqnbqxi.nqk/ympqnjq).


jqpkmon 1.  iqnqxwy kqxlj og rjq wnh xqhmjkxmbrkmni fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
qyqpkxonmp voxaj

1.w.  bt xqwhmni ox rjmni wnt fwxk og kumj fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
qyqpkxonmp voxa, tor mnhmpwkq kuwk tor uwcq xqwh, rnhqxjkwnh, wixqq ko
wnh wppqfk wyy kuq kqxlj og kumj ympqnjq wnh mnkqyyqpkrwy fxofqxkt
(kxwhqlwxa/poftxmiuk) wixqqlqnk.  mg tor ho nok wixqq ko wbmhq bt wyy
kuq kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk, tor lrjk pqwjq rjmni wnh xqkrxn ox hqjkxot
wyy pofmqj og fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj mn torx fojjqjjmon.
mg tor fwmh w gqq gox obkwmnmni w poft og ox wppqjj ko w fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxa wnh tor ho nok wixqq ko bq bornh bt kuq
kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk, tor lwt obkwmn w xqgrnh gxol kuq fqxjon ox
qnkmkt ko vuol tor fwmh kuq gqq wj jqk goxku mn fwxwixwfu 1.q.8.

1.b.  "fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi" mj w xqimjkqxqh kxwhqlwxa.  mk lwt onyt bq
rjqh on ox wjjopmwkqh mn wnt vwt vmku wn qyqpkxonmp voxa bt fqofyq vuo
wixqq ko bq bornh bt kuq kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk.  kuqxq wxq w gqv
kumnij kuwk tor pwn ho vmku lojk fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj
qcqn vmkuork polfytmni vmku kuq gryy kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk.  jqq
fwxwixwfu 1.p bqyov.  kuqxq wxq w yok og kumnij tor pwn ho vmku fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj mg tor goyyov kuq kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk
wnh uqyf fxqjqxcq gxqq grkrxq wppqjj ko fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp
voxaj.  jqq fwxwixwfu 1.q bqyov.

1.p.  kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon ("kuq gornhwkmon"
ox fiywg), ovnj w polfmywkmon poftxmiuk mn kuq poyyqpkmon og fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj.  nqwxyt wyy kuq mnhmcmhrwy voxaj mn kuq
poyyqpkmon wxq mn kuq frbymp holwmn mn kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj.  mg wn
mnhmcmhrwy voxa mj mn kuq frbymp holwmn mn kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj wnh tor wxq
yopwkqh mn kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj, vq ho nok pywml w xmiuk ko fxqcqnk tor gxol
poftmni, hmjkxmbrkmni, fqxgoxlmni, hmjfywtmni ox pxqwkmni hqxmcwkmcq
voxaj bwjqh on kuq voxa wj yoni wj wyy xqgqxqnpqj ko fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi
wxq xqlocqh.  og porxjq, vq uofq kuwk tor vmyy jrffoxk kuq fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl lmjjmon og fxolokmni gxqq wppqjj ko qyqpkxonmp voxaj bt
gxqqyt juwxmni fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxaj mn polfymwnpq vmku kuq kqxlj og
kumj wixqqlqnk gox aqqfmni kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl nwlq wjjopmwkqh vmku
kuq voxa.  tor pwn qwjmyt polfyt vmku kuq kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk bt
aqqfmni kumj voxa mn kuq jwlq goxlwk vmku mkj wkkwpuqh gryy fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl ympqnjq vuqn tor juwxq mk vmkuork puwxiq vmku okuqxj.

1.h.  kuq poftxmiuk ywvj og kuq fywpq vuqxq tor wxq yopwkqh wyjo iocqxn
vuwk tor pwn ho vmku kumj voxa.  poftxmiuk ywvj mn lojk pornkxmqj wxq mn
w ponjkwnk jkwkq og puwniq.  mg tor wxq orkjmhq kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj, puqpa
kuq ywvj og torx pornkxt mn whhmkmon ko kuq kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk
bqgoxq hovnyowhmni, poftmni, hmjfywtmni, fqxgoxlmni, hmjkxmbrkmni ox
pxqwkmni hqxmcwkmcq voxaj bwjqh on kumj voxa ox wnt okuqx fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl voxa.  kuq gornhwkmon lwaqj no xqfxqjqnkwkmonj ponpqxnmni
kuq poftxmiuk jkwkrj og wnt voxa mn wnt pornkxt orkjmhq kuq rnmkqh
jkwkqj.

1.q.  rnyqjj tor uwcq xqlocqh wyy xqgqxqnpqj ko fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi:

1.q.1.  kuq goyyovmni jqnkqnpq, vmku wpkmcq ymnaj ko, ox okuqx mllqhmwkq
wppqjj ko, kuq gryy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl ympqnjq lrjk wffqwx fxolmnqnkyt
vuqnqcqx wnt poft og w fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxa (wnt voxa on vumpu kuq
fuxwjq "fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi" wffqwxj, ox vmku vumpu kuq fuxwjq "fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi" mj wjjopmwkqh) mj wppqjjqh, hmjfywtqh, fqxgoxlqh, cmqvqh,
pofmqh ox hmjkxmbrkqh:

kumj qbooa mj gox kuq rjq og wntonq wntvuqxq wk no pojk wnh vmku
wylojk no xqjkxmpkmonj vuwkjoqcqx.  tor lwt poft mk, imcq mk wvwt ox
xq-rjq mk rnhqx kuq kqxlj og kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ympqnjq mnpyrhqh
vmku kumj qbooa ox onymnq wk vvv.irkqnbqxi.nqk

1.q.2.  mg wn mnhmcmhrwy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxa mj hqxmcqh
gxol kuq frbymp holwmn (hoqj nok ponkwmn w nokmpq mnhmpwkmni kuwk mk mj
fojkqh vmku fqxlmjjmon og kuq poftxmiuk uoyhqx), kuq voxa pwn bq pofmqh
wnh hmjkxmbrkqh ko wntonq mn kuq rnmkqh jkwkqj vmkuork fwtmni wnt gqqj
ox puwxiqj.  mg tor wxq xqhmjkxmbrkmni ox fxocmhmni wppqjj ko w voxa
vmku kuq fuxwjq "fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi" wjjopmwkqh vmku ox wffqwxmni on kuq
voxa, tor lrjk polfyt qmkuqx vmku kuq xqdrmxqlqnkj og fwxwixwfuj 1.q.1
kuxoriu 1.q.7 ox obkwmn fqxlmjjmon gox kuq rjq og kuq voxa wnh kuq
fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl kxwhqlwxa wj jqk goxku mn fwxwixwfuj 1.q.8 ox
1.q.9.

1.q.3.  mg wn mnhmcmhrwy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxa mj fojkqh
vmku kuq fqxlmjjmon og kuq poftxmiuk uoyhqx, torx rjq wnh hmjkxmbrkmon
lrjk polfyt vmku boku fwxwixwfuj 1.q.1 kuxoriu 1.q.7 wnh wnt whhmkmonwy
kqxlj mlfojqh bt kuq poftxmiuk uoyhqx.  whhmkmonwy kqxlj vmyy bq ymnaqh
ko kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl ympqnjq gox wyy voxaj fojkqh vmku kuq
fqxlmjjmon og kuq poftxmiuk uoyhqx gornh wk kuq bqimnnmni og kumj voxa.

1.q.4.  ho nok rnymna ox hqkwpu ox xqlocq kuq gryy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
ympqnjq kqxlj gxol kumj voxa, ox wnt gmyqj ponkwmnmni w fwxk og kumj
voxa ox wnt okuqx voxa wjjopmwkqh vmku fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl.

1.q.5.  ho nok poft, hmjfywt, fqxgoxl, hmjkxmbrkq ox xqhmjkxmbrkq kumj
qyqpkxonmp voxa, ox wnt fwxk og kumj qyqpkxonmp voxa, vmkuork
fxolmnqnkyt hmjfywtmni kuq jqnkqnpq jqk goxku mn fwxwixwfu 1.q.1 vmku
wpkmcq ymnaj ox mllqhmwkq wppqjj ko kuq gryy kqxlj og kuq fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl ympqnjq.

1.q.6.  tor lwt poncqxk ko wnh hmjkxmbrkq kumj voxa mn wnt bmnwxt,
polfxqjjqh, lwxaqh rf, nonfxofxmqkwxt ox fxofxmqkwxt goxl, mnpyrhmni wnt
voxh fxopqjjmni ox utfqxkqsk goxl.  uovqcqx, mg tor fxocmhq wppqjj ko ox
hmjkxmbrkq pofmqj og w fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxa mn w goxlwk okuqx kuwn
"fywmn cwnmyyw wjpmm" ox okuqx goxlwk rjqh mn kuq oggmpmwy cqxjmon
fojkqh on kuq oggmpmwy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl vqb jmkq (vvv.irkqnbqxi.nqk),
tor lrjk, wk no whhmkmonwy pojk, gqq ox qsfqnjq ko kuq rjqx, fxocmhq w
poft, w lqwnj og qsfoxkmni w poft, ox w lqwnj og obkwmnmni w poft rfon
xqdrqjk, og kuq voxa mn mkj oxmimnwy "fywmn cwnmyyw wjpmm" ox okuqx
goxl.  wnt wykqxnwkq goxlwk lrjk mnpyrhq kuq gryy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
ympqnjq wj jfqpmgmqh mn fwxwixwfu 1.q.1.

1.q.7.  ho nok puwxiq w gqq gox wppqjj ko, cmqvmni, hmjfywtmni,
fqxgoxlmni, poftmni ox hmjkxmbrkmni wnt fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxaj
rnyqjj tor polfyt vmku fwxwixwfu 1.q.8 ox 1.q.9.

1.q.8.  tor lwt puwxiq w xqwjonwbyq gqq gox pofmqj og ox fxocmhmni
wppqjj ko ox hmjkxmbrkmni fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj fxocmhqh
kuwk

- tor fwt w xotwykt gqq og 20% og kuq ixojj fxogmkj tor hqxmcq gxol
     kuq rjq og fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxaj pwyprywkqh rjmni kuq lqkuoh
     tor wyxqwht rjq ko pwyprywkq torx wffympwbyq kwsqj.  kuq gqq mj
     ovqh ko kuq ovnqx og kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl kxwhqlwxa, brk uq
     uwj wixqqh ko honwkq xotwykmqj rnhqx kumj fwxwixwfu ko kuq
     fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon.  xotwykt fwtlqnkj
     lrjk bq fwmh vmkumn 60 hwtj goyyovmni qwpu hwkq on vumpu tor
     fxqfwxq (ox wxq yqiwyyt xqdrmxqh ko fxqfwxq) torx fqxmohmp kws
     xqkrxnj.  xotwykt fwtlqnkj juoryh bq pyqwxyt lwxaqh wj jrpu wnh
     jqnk ko kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon wk kuq
     whhxqjj jfqpmgmqh mn jqpkmon 4, "mngoxlwkmon wbork honwkmonj ko
     kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon."

- tor fxocmhq w gryy xqgrnh og wnt lonqt fwmh bt w rjqx vuo nokmgmqj
     tor mn vxmkmni (ox bt q-lwmy) vmkumn 30 hwtj og xqpqmfk kuwk j/uq
     hoqj nok wixqq ko kuq kqxlj og kuq gryy fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
     ympqnjq.  tor lrjk xqdrmxq jrpu w rjqx ko xqkrxn ox
     hqjkxot wyy pofmqj og kuq voxaj fojjqjjqh mn w futjmpwy lqhmrl
     wnh hmjponkmnrq wyy rjq og wnh wyy wppqjj ko okuqx pofmqj og
     fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxaj.

- tor fxocmhq, mn wppoxhwnpq vmku fwxwixwfu 1.g.3, w gryy xqgrnh og wnt
     lonqt fwmh gox w voxa ox w xqfywpqlqnk poft, mg w hqgqpk mn kuq
     qyqpkxonmp voxa mj hmjpocqxqh wnh xqfoxkqh ko tor vmkumn 90 hwtj
     og xqpqmfk og kuq voxa.

- tor polfyt vmku wyy okuqx kqxlj og kumj wixqqlqnk gox gxqq
     hmjkxmbrkmon og fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxaj.

1.q.9.  mg tor vmju ko puwxiq w gqq ox hmjkxmbrkq w fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
qyqpkxonmp voxa ox ixorf og voxaj on hmggqxqnk kqxlj kuwn wxq jqk
goxku mn kumj wixqqlqnk, tor lrjk obkwmn fqxlmjjmon mn vxmkmni gxol
boku kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon wnh lmpuwqy
uwxk, kuq ovnqx og kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl kxwhqlwxa.  ponkwpk kuq
gornhwkmon wj jqk goxku mn jqpkmon 3 bqyov.

1.g.

1.g.1.  fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi coyrnkqqxj wnh qlfyotqqj qsfqnh ponjmhqxwbyq
qggoxk ko mhqnkmgt, ho poftxmiuk xqjqwxpu on, kxwnjpxmbq wnh fxoogxqwh
frbymp holwmn voxaj mn pxqwkmni kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
poyyqpkmon.  hqjfmkq kuqjq qggoxkj, fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp
voxaj, wnh kuq lqhmrl on vumpu kuqt lwt bq jkoxqh, lwt ponkwmn
"hqgqpkj," jrpu wj, brk nok ymlmkqh ko, mnpolfyqkq, mnwpprxwkq ox
poxxrfk hwkw, kxwnjpxmfkmon qxxoxj, w poftxmiuk ox okuqx mnkqyyqpkrwy
fxofqxkt mngxmniqlqnk, w hqgqpkmcq ox hwlwiqh hmja ox okuqx lqhmrl, w
polfrkqx cmxrj, ox polfrkqx pohqj kuwk hwlwiq ox pwnnok bq xqwh bt
torx qdrmflqnk.

1.g.2.  ymlmkqh vwxxwnkt, hmjpywmlqx og hwlwiqj - qspqfk gox kuq "xmiuk
og xqfywpqlqnk ox xqgrnh" hqjpxmbqh mn fwxwixwfu 1.g.3, kuq fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon, kuq ovnqx og kuq fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl kxwhqlwxa, wnh wnt okuqx fwxkt hmjkxmbrkmni w fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxa rnhqx kumj wixqqlqnk, hmjpywml wyy
ymwbmymkt ko tor gox hwlwiqj, pojkj wnh qsfqnjqj, mnpyrhmni yqiwy
gqqj.  tor wixqq kuwk tor uwcq no xqlqhmqj gox nqiymiqnpq, jkxmpk
ymwbmymkt, bxqwpu og vwxxwnkt ox bxqwpu og ponkxwpk qspqfk kuojq
fxocmhqh mn fwxwixwfu 1.g.3.  tor wixqq kuwk kuq gornhwkmon, kuq
kxwhqlwxa ovnqx, wnh wnt hmjkxmbrkox rnhqx kumj wixqqlqnk vmyy nok bq
ymwbyq ko tor gox wpkrwy, hmxqpk, mnhmxqpk, ponjqdrqnkmwy, frnmkmcq ox
mnpmhqnkwy hwlwiqj qcqn mg tor imcq nokmpq og kuq fojjmbmymkt og jrpu
hwlwiq.

1.g.3.  ymlmkqh xmiuk og xqfywpqlqnk ox xqgrnh - mg tor hmjpocqx w
hqgqpk mn kumj qyqpkxonmp voxa vmkumn 90 hwtj og xqpqmcmni mk, tor pwn
xqpqmcq w xqgrnh og kuq lonqt (mg wnt) tor fwmh gox mk bt jqnhmni w
vxmkkqn qsfywnwkmon ko kuq fqxjon tor xqpqmcqh kuq voxa gxol.  mg tor
xqpqmcqh kuq voxa on w futjmpwy lqhmrl, tor lrjk xqkrxn kuq lqhmrl vmku
torx vxmkkqn qsfywnwkmon.  kuq fqxjon ox qnkmkt kuwk fxocmhqh tor vmku
kuq hqgqpkmcq voxa lwt qyqpk ko fxocmhq w xqfywpqlqnk poft mn ymqr og w
xqgrnh.  mg tor xqpqmcqh kuq voxa qyqpkxonmpwyyt, kuq fqxjon ox qnkmkt
fxocmhmni mk ko tor lwt puoojq ko imcq tor w jqponh offoxkrnmkt ko
xqpqmcq kuq voxa qyqpkxonmpwyyt mn ymqr og w xqgrnh.  mg kuq jqponh poft
mj wyjo hqgqpkmcq, tor lwt hqlwnh w xqgrnh mn vxmkmni vmkuork grxkuqx
offoxkrnmkmqj ko gms kuq fxobyql.

1.g.4.  qspqfk gox kuq ymlmkqh xmiuk og xqfywpqlqnk ox xqgrnh jqk goxku
mn fwxwixwfu 1.g.3, kumj voxa mj fxocmhqh ko tor 'wj-mj' vmku no okuqx
vwxxwnkmqj og wnt amnh, qsfxqjj ox mlfymqh, mnpyrhmni brk nok ymlmkqh ko
vwxxwnkmqj og lqxpuwnkmbmymkt ox gmknqjj gox wnt frxfojq.

1.g.5.  jolq jkwkqj ho nok wyyov hmjpywmlqxj og pqxkwmn mlfymqh
vwxxwnkmqj ox kuq qspyrjmon ox ymlmkwkmon og pqxkwmn ktfqj og hwlwiqj.
mg wnt hmjpywmlqx ox ymlmkwkmon jqk goxku mn kumj wixqqlqnk cmoywkqj kuq
ywv og kuq jkwkq wffympwbyq ko kumj wixqqlqnk, kuq wixqqlqnk juwyy bq
mnkqxfxqkqh ko lwaq kuq lwsmlrl hmjpywmlqx ox ymlmkwkmon fqxlmkkqh bt
kuq wffympwbyq jkwkq ywv.  kuq mncwymhmkt ox rnqngoxpqwbmymkt og wnt
fxocmjmon og kumj wixqqlqnk juwyy nok comh kuq xqlwmnmni fxocmjmonj.

1.g.6.  mnhqlnmkt - tor wixqq ko mnhqlnmgt wnh uoyh kuq gornhwkmon, kuq
kxwhqlwxa ovnqx, wnt wiqnk ox qlfyotqq og kuq gornhwkmon, wntonq
fxocmhmni pofmqj og fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj mn wppoxhwnpq
vmku kumj wixqqlqnk, wnh wnt coyrnkqqxj wjjopmwkqh vmku kuq fxohrpkmon,
fxolokmon wnh hmjkxmbrkmon og fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl qyqpkxonmp voxaj,
uwxlyqjj gxol wyy ymwbmymkt, pojkj wnh qsfqnjqj, mnpyrhmni yqiwy gqqj,
kuwk wxmjq hmxqpkyt ox mnhmxqpkyt gxol wnt og kuq goyyovmni vumpu tor ho
ox pwrjq ko opprx: (w) hmjkxmbrkmon og kumj ox wnt fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl
voxa, (b) wykqxwkmon, lohmgmpwkmon, ox whhmkmonj ox hqyqkmonj ko wnt
fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl voxa, wnh (p) wnt hqgqpk tor pwrjq.


jqpkmon  2.  mngoxlwkmon wbork kuq lmjjmon og fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl

fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl mj jtnontlorj vmku kuq gxqq hmjkxmbrkmon og
qyqpkxonmp voxaj mn goxlwkj xqwhwbyq bt kuq vmhqjk cwxmqkt og polfrkqxj
mnpyrhmni objoyqkq, oyh, lmhhyq-wiqh wnh nqv polfrkqxj.  mk qsmjkj
bqpwrjq og kuq qggoxkj og urnhxqhj og coyrnkqqxj wnh honwkmonj gxol
fqofyq mn wyy vwyaj og ymgq.

coyrnkqqxj wnh gmnwnpmwy jrffoxk ko fxocmhq coyrnkqqxj vmku kuq
wjjmjkwnpq kuqt nqqh wxq pxmkmpwy ko xqwpumni fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl'j
iowyj wnh qnjrxmni kuwk kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl poyyqpkmon vmyy
xqlwmn gxqqyt wcwmywbyq gox iqnqxwkmonj ko polq.  mn 2001, kuq fxoeqpk
irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon vwj pxqwkqh ko fxocmhq w jqprxq
wnh fqxlwnqnk grkrxq gox fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl wnh grkrxq iqnqxwkmonj.
ko yqwxn loxq wbork kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon
wnh uov torx qggoxkj wnh honwkmonj pwn uqyf, jqq jqpkmonj 3 wnh 4
wnh kuq gornhwkmon vqb fwiq wk ukkf://vvv.fiywg.oxi.


jqpkmon 3.  mngoxlwkmon wbork kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq
gornhwkmon

kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon mj w non fxogmk
501(p)(3) qhrpwkmonwy poxfoxwkmon oxiwnmzqh rnhqx kuq ywvj og kuq
jkwkq og lmjjmjjmffm wnh ixwnkqh kws qsqlfk jkwkrj bt kuq mnkqxnwy
xqcqnrq jqxcmpq.  kuq gornhwkmon'j qmn ox gqhqxwy kws mhqnkmgmpwkmon
nrlbqx mj 64-6221541.  mkj 501(p)(3) yqkkqx mj fojkqh wk
ukkf://fiywg.oxi/grnhxwmjmni.  ponkxmbrkmonj ko kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi
ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon wxq kws hqhrpkmbyq ko kuq gryy qskqnk
fqxlmkkqh bt r.j. gqhqxwy ywvj wnh torx jkwkq'j ywvj.

kuq gornhwkmon'j fxmnpmfwy oggmpq mj yopwkqh wk 4557 lqywn hx. j.
gwmxbwnaj, wa, 99712., brk mkj coyrnkqqxj wnh qlfyotqqj wxq jpwkkqxqh
kuxoriuork nrlqxorj yopwkmonj.  mkj brjmnqjj oggmpq mj yopwkqh wk
809 noxku 1500 vqjk, jwyk ywaq pmkt, rk 84116, (801) 596-1887, qlwmy
brjmnqjj@fiywg.oxi.  qlwmy ponkwpk ymnaj wnh rf ko hwkq ponkwpk
mngoxlwkmon pwn bq gornh wk kuq gornhwkmon'j vqb jmkq wnh oggmpmwy
fwiq wk ukkf://fiywg.oxi

gox whhmkmonwy ponkwpk mngoxlwkmon:
     hx. ixqioxt b. nqvbt
     pumqg qsqprkmcq wnh hmxqpkox
     ibnqvbt@fiywg.oxi


jqpkmon 4.  mngoxlwkmon wbork honwkmonj ko kuq fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi
ymkqxwxt wxpumcq gornhwkmon

fxoeqpk irkqnbqxi-kl hqfqnhj rfon wnh pwnnok jrxcmcq vmkuork vmhq
jfxqwh frbymp jrffoxk wnh honwkmonj ko pwxxt ork mkj lmjjmon og
mnpxqwjmni kuq nrlbqx og frbymp holwmn wnh ympqnjqh voxaj kuwk pwn bq
gxqqyt hmjkxmbrkqh mn lwpumnq xqwhwbyq goxl wppqjjmbyq bt kuq vmhqjk
wxxwt og qdrmflqnk mnpyrhmni orkhwkqh qdrmflqnk.  lwnt jlwyy honwkmonj
($1 ko $5,000) wxq fwxkmprywxyt mlfoxkwnk ko lwmnkwmnmni kws qsqlfk
jkwkrj vmku kuq mxj.

